GShard: Scaling Giant Models with Conditional
Computation and Automatic Sharding
Dmitry Lepikhin
lepikhin@google.com
HyoukJoong Lee
hyouklee@google.com
Yuanzhong Xu
yuanzx@google.com
Dehao Chen
dehao@google.com
Orhan Firat
orhanf@google.com
Yanping Huang
huangyp@google.com
Maxim Krikun
krikun@google.com
Noam Shazeer
noam@google.com
Zhifeng Chen
zhifengc@google.com
Abstract
Neural network scaling has been critical for improving the model quality in many
real-world machine learning applications with vast amounts of training data and
compute. Although this trend of scaling is affirmed to be a sure-fire approach for
better model quality, there are challenges on the path such as the computation cost,
ease of programming, and efficient implementation on parallel devices. GShard
is a module composed of a set of lightweight annotation APIs and an extension
to the XLA compiler. It provides an elegant way to express a wide range of
parallel computation patterns with minimal changes to the existing model code.
GShard enabled us to scale up multilingual neural machine translation Transformer
model with Sparsely-Gated Mixture-of-Experts beyond 600 billion parameters
using automatic sharding. We demonstrate that such a giant model can efficienctly
be trained on 2048 TPU v3 accelerators in 4 days to achieve far superior quality
for translation from 100 languages to English compared to the prior art.
1 Introduction
Scaling neural networks brings dramatic quality gains over a wide array of machine learning problems
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]. For computer vision, increasing the model capacity has led to better image classifi-
cation and detection accuracy for various computer vision architectures [7, 8, 9]. Similarly in natural
language processing, scaling Transformers [10] yielded consistent gains on language understanding
tasks [4, 11, 12], cross-lingual down-stream transfer [4, 13] and (massively-)multilingual neural
machine translation [14, 15, 16]. This general tendency motivated recent studies to scrutinize the
factors playing a critical role in the success of scaling [17, 18, 19, 20, 3], including the amounts of
training data, the model size, and the computation being utilized as found by past studies. While the
final model quality was found to have a power-law relationship with the amount of data, compute
and model size [18, 3], the significant quality gains brought by larger models also come with various
practical challenges. Training efficiency among the most important ones, which we define as the
amount of compute and training time being used to achieve a superior model quality against the best
system existed, is oftentimes left out.
Preprint. Under review.
arXiv:2006.16668v1 [cs.CL] 30 Jun 2020

Figure 1: Multilingual translation quality (average ∆BLEU comparing to bilingual baselines) im-
proved as MoE model size grows up to 600B, while the end-to-end training cost (in terms of TPU v3
core-year) only increased sublinearly. Increasing the model size from 37.5B to 600B (16x), results in
computation cost increase from 6 to 22 years (3.6x). The 600B parameters model that achieved the
best translation quality was trained with 2048 TPU v3 cores for 4 days, a total cost of 22 TPU v3
core-years. In contrast, training all 100 bilingual baseline models would have required 29 TPU v3
core-years. Our best quality dense single Transformer model (2.3B parameters) achieving ∆BLEU
of 6.1, was trained with GPipe [15] on 2048 TPU v3 cores for 6 weeks or total of 235.5 TPU v3
core-years.
1.1 Practical Challenges for Scaling
Here we enumerate major practical challenges faced especially when training massive-scale models
that are orders of magnitude larger than the capacity limit of a single accelerator memory (e.g., GPUs
or TPUs).
Architecture-specific model parallelism support There is a lack of support for efficient model
parallelism algorithms under commonly used deep learning frameworks such as TensorFlow [21] and
PyTorch [22]. Naive model parallelism with graph partition is supported but it would lead to severe
under-utilization due to the sequential dependency of the network and gradient based optimization.
In order to scale up the existing models efficiently, users typically need to invest a lot of engineering
work, for example, migrating the model code to special frameworks [23, 15].
Super-linear scaling of computation cost vs model size Straightforward scaling of the mode size
by increasing the depth or width [6, 15] generally results in at least linear increase of training step
time. Model parallelism by splitting layer weights and computation across multiple devices generally
becomes necessary, leading to network communication overhead and device under-utilization. Device
under-utilization stems from imbalanced assignment and sequential dependencies of the underlying
neural network. This super-linear relationship between the computation cost and the model size can
not be resolved by simply using more devices, making training massive models impractical.
Infrastructure scalability for giant model representation A naive graph representation for the
massive-scale model distributed across thousands of devices may become a bottleneck for both deep
learning frameworks and their optimizing compilers. For example, adding D times more layers with
inter-op partitioning or increasing model dimensions with intra-op partitioning across D devices may
result in a graph with O(D) nodes. Communication channels between devices could further increase
the graph size by up to O(D^2) (e.g., partitioning gather or transpose). Such increase in the graph
size would result in an infeasible amount of graph building and compilation time for massive-scale
models.
Non-trivial efforts for implementing partitioning strategies Partitioning a model to run on
many devices efficiently is challenging, as it requires coordinating communications across devices.
For graph-level partitioning, sophisticated algorithms [15, 24] are needed to reduce the overhead

introduced by the sequential dependencies between different partitions of graphs allocated on different
devices. For operator-level parallelism, there are different communication patterns for different
partitioned operators, depending on the semantics, e.g., whether it needs to accumulate partial results,
or to rearrange data shards. According to our experience, manually handling these issues in the model
requires substantial amount of effort, given the fact that the frameworks like TensorFlow have a
large sets of operators with ad-hoc semantics. In all cases, implementing model partitioning would
particularly be a burden for practitioners, as changing model architecture would require changing the
underlying device communications, causing a ripple effect.
1.2 Design Principles for Efficient Training at Scale
In this paper, we demonstrate how to overcome these challenges by building a 600 billion parameters
sequence-to-sequence Transformer model with Sparsely-Gated Mixture-of-Experts layers, which
enjoys sub-linear computation cost and O(1) compilation time. We trained this model with 2048 TPU
v3 devices for 4 days on a multilingual machine translation task and achieved far superior translation
quality compared to prior art when translating 100 languages to English with a single non-ensemble
model. We conducted experiments with various model sizes and found that the translation quality
increases as the model gets bigger, yet the total wall-time to train only increases sub-linearly with
respect to the model size, as illustrated in Figure 1. To build such an extremely large model, we made
the following key design choices.
Sub-linear Scaling First, model architecture should be designed to keep the computation and
communication requirements sublinear in the model capacity. Conditional computation [25, 16,
26, 27] enables us to satisfy training and inference efficiency by having a sub-network activated
on the per-input basis. Scaling capacity of RNN-based machine translation and language models
by adding Position-wise Sparsely Gated Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) layers [16] allowed to achieve
state-of-the-art results with sublinear computation cost. We therefore present our approach to extend
Transformer architecture with MoE layers in Section 2.
The Power of Abstraction Second, the model description should be separated from the partitioning
implementation and optimization. This separation of concerns let model developers focus on the
network architecture and flexibly change the partitioning strategy, while the underlying system applies
semantic-preserving transformations and implements efficient parallel execution. To this end we
propose a module, GShard, which only requires the user to annotate a few critical tensors in the
model with partitioning policies. It consists of a set of simple APIs for annotations, and a compiler
extension in XLA [28] for automatic parallelization. Model developers write models as if there is a
single device with huge memory and computation capacity, and the compiler automatically partitions
the computation for the target based on the annotations and their own heuristics. We provide more
annotation examples in Section 3.2.
Scalable Compilers Third, the system infrastructure, including the computation representation
and compilation, must scale with thousands of devices for parallel execution. For example, Figure 2
illustrates two different ways of partitioning a dot-product operation across 4 devices (color-coded).
Notice that with the usual MPMD (Multiple Program Multiple Data) approach in Figure 2a scaling
becomes more challenging since the number of nodes in the graph increases linearly with the number
of devices. Instead, we developed a compiler technique for SPMD (Single Program Multiple Data)
transformation that generates a single program to run on all devices, keeping the compilation time
constant independent of the number of devices, as illustrated in Figure 2b. We will discuss our SPMD
framework in more details in Section 3.3.
The rest of the paper is organized as the following. Section 2 describes our Transformer architecture
with Sparsely-Gated MoE layer in more details. Section 3 introduces our development module GShard.
Section 4 demonstrates the application of our mixture of expert models on the multilingual machine
translation task over 100 language pairs. Section 5 has performance and memory measurements of
our implementation. Section 6 discusses related work.

Figure 2: Comparison between MPMD and our proposed SPMD partitioning of a Dot operator
([M, K] × [K, N] = [M, N]) across 4 devices. In this example, both operands are partitioned along
the contracting dimension K, where each device computes the local result and globally combines
with an AllReduce. MPMD partitioning generates separate operators for each device, limiting its
scalability, whereas SPMD partitioning generates one program to run on all devices. Note that the
compilation time with our SPMD partitioning is not-dependent of the number of devices being used.
2 Model
2.1 Sparse scaling of the Transformer architecture
The Transformer [10] architecture has been widely used for natural language processing. It has
become the de-facto standard for many sequence-to-sequence tasks, such as machine translation.
Transformer makes use of two computational blocks, an encoder and a decoder, both implemented
by stacking multiple Transformer layers. Transformer encoder layer consists of two consecutive
layers, namely a self-attention layer followed by a position-wise feed-forward layer. Decoder adds
third cross-attention layer, which attends over encoder output. We sparsely scale Transformer with
conditional computation by replacing every other feed-forward layer with a Position-wise Mixture of
Experts (MoE) layer [16] with a variant of top-2 gating in both the encoder and the decoder (Figure 3).
We vary the number of Transformer layers and the number of experts per MoE layer in order to scale
the model capacity.
Each training example consists of a pair of sequences of subword tokens. Each token activates a
sub-network of the MoE Transformer during both training and inference. The size of the sub-network
is roughly independent of the number of experts per MoE Layer, allowing sublinear scaling of the
computation cost as described in the previous section. Computation complexity is further analyzed in
Section 3.1 and training performance in Section 5.
2.2 Position-wise Mixture-of-Experts Layer
The Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) layer used in our model is based on [16] with variations in the sparse
gating function and the auxiliary loss being used. A MoE layer for Transformer consists of E
feed-forward networks FFN_1 ... FFN_E:

G_s,E = GATE(x_s)                                    (1)
FFN_e(x_s) = wo_e · ReLU(wi_e · x_s)                 (2)
y_s = ∑_{e=1}^{E} G_s,e · FFN_e(x_s)                 (3)

Figure 3: Illustration of scaling of Transformer Encoder with MoE Layers. The MoE layer replaces
the every other Transformer feed-forward layer. Decoder modification is similar. (a) The encoder of
a standard Transformer model is a stack of self-attention and feed forward layers interleaved with
residual connections and layer normalization. (b) By replacing every other feed forward layer with
a MoE layer, we get the model structure of the MoE Transformer Encoder. (c) When scaling to
multiple devices, the MoE layer is sharded across devices, while all other layers are replicated.
where x_s is the input token to the MoE layer, wi and wo being the input and output projection matrices
for the feed-forward layer (an expert). Vector G_s,E is computed by a gating network. G_s,E has one
non-negative for each expert, most of which are zeros meaning the token is not dispatched to that
expert. The token is dispatched to a very small number of experts. We choose to let each token
dispatched to at most two experts. The corresponding entries in G_s,E are non-zeros, representing
how much an expert contributes to the final network output. Every expert FFN_e applies to x_s a
fully-connected 2-layer network using ReLU [29] activation function. The output of the MoE layer,
y_s, is the weighted average of outputs from all the selected experts.
The gating function GATE(·) is critical to the MoE layer, which is modeled by a softmax activation
function to indicate the weights of each expert in processing incoming tokens. In other words, to
indicate how good an expert is at processing the incoming token. Furthermore, the gating function
must satisfy two goals:
• Balanced load It is desirable that the MoE layer to sparsely activate the experts for a given
token. A naive solution would be just to choose the top-k experts according to the softmax
probability distribution. However, it is known that this approach leads to load imbalance
problem for training [16]: most tokens seen during training would have been dispatched to a
small number of experts, amassing a very large input buffer for only a few (busy) experts
leaving other experts untrained, slowing down the training. Meanwhile many other experts
do not get sufficiently trained at all. A better design of the gating function would distribute
processing burden more evenly across all experts.
• Efficiency at scale It would be rather trivial to achieve a balanced load if the gating function
is done sequentially. The computation cost for the gating function alone is at least O(NE)
for all N tokens in the input batch given E experts. However, in our study, N is in the order
of millions and E is in the order of thousands, a sequential implementation of the gating
function would keep most of the computational resources idle most of the time. Therefore,
we need an efficient parallel implementation of the gating function to leverage many devices.

We designed the following mechanisms in the gating function GATE(·) to meet the above require-
ments (details illustrated in Algorithm 1):
• Expert capacity To ensure the load is balanced, we enforce that the number of tokens
processed by one expert is below some uniform threshold, which we define as expert
capacity. Assuming that the total number of tokens in a training batch is N, and each
token is dispatched to at most two experts, then the expert capacity is set to be O(N/E).
GATE(·) keeps a running counter c_e for how many tokens are dispatched to an expert. When
both experts selected by a token already exceed their capacity, the token is considered as
an overflowed token, where G_s,E degenerates into a zero vector. Such tokens have their
representation x_s passed on to the next layer via residual connections.
• Local group dispatching GATE(·) partitions all tokens in a training batch evenly into G
groups, i.e., each group contains S = N/G tokens. All groups are processed independently
in parallel. Each group is given a fractional capacity of each expert, 2N/(G · E). Each
group ensures that at most this many tokens are dispatched to an expert. In this way, we can
ensure that expert capacity is still enforced and the overall load is balanced.
• Auxiliary loss It is important that the gating function does not always choose the same few
experts, as this would lead to a capacity overflow for only a few experts and under-utilization
for the remaining ones. Following [16], we define an auxiliary loss term ℓ_aux to enforce
this constraint. It is added to the overall loss function of the model L = ℓ_nll + k ∗ ℓ_aux
with a constant multiplier k. The particular form of the auxiliary loss term ℓ_aux in line (13)
of algorithm 1 is motivated by the following consideration: the term c_e/S represents the
fraction of input routed to each expert, and we want to minimize mean square of c_e/S. But
because c_e is derived from top-2 operation and is not differentiable, we use the mean gates
per expert m_e as a differentiable approximation and replace (c_e/S)^2 with m_e(c_e/S), which
can now be optimized with gradient descent.
• Random routing Intuitively, because y_s is a weighted average of what selected experts
return, if the weight for the 2nd expert is very small, we can simply ignore the 2nd expert to
conserve the overall expert capacity. Hence, in addition to respecting the expert capacity
constraint, GATE(·) dispatches to the 2nd-best expert with the probability proportional to
its weight g_2.
3 Highly Parallel Implementation using GShard
This section describes the implementation of the model in Section 2 that runs efficiently on a cluster
of TPU devices.
The first step is to express the model in terms of linear algebra operations, in which our software
stack (TensorFlow [21]) and the hardware platform (TPU) are highly tailored and optimized. It
is readily easy to code up most of the model in terms of linear algebra in the same way as the
original Transformer. However, it requires some effort to express the MoE Layer, in particular
GATE(·) function presented in Algorithm 1 due to its sequential nature, and we describe the details
in Section 3.1.
Next, we annotate the linear algebra computation to express parallelism. Each tensor in the com-
putation can be annotated for replication or distribution across a cluster of devices using sharding
APIs in Section 3.2. Using sharding annotations enables separation of concerns between the model
description and the efficient parallel implementation, and allows users to flexibly express diverse
parallelization strategies. For example, (1) the attention layer is parallelized by splitting along the
batch dimension and replicating its weights to all devices. On the other hand, (2) experts in the MoE
layer are infeasible to be replicated in all the devices due to its sheer size and the only viable strategy
is to shard experts into many devices. Furthermore, the whole model alternates between these two
modes (1)-(2). Using annotations frees model developers from the system optimization efforts and
avoids baking the parallel implementation and low-level details into the model code.
Finally, the compiler infrastructure takes a (partially) annotated linear algebra computation and
produces an efficient parallel program that scales to thousands of devices. As will be described in
Section 3.3, the compiler applies SPMD (Single Program Multiple Data) partitioning transformation
to express per-device computation, inserts necessary cross-device communication, handles irregular

Algorithm 1: Group-level top-2 gating with auxiliary loss
Data: x_S, a group of tokens of size S
Data: C, Expert capacity allocated to this group
Result: G_S,E, group combine weights
Result: ℓ_aux, group auxiliary loss
(1) c_E ← 0                                          . gating decisions per expert
(2) g_S,E ← softmax(wg · x_S)                        . gates per token per expert, wg are trainable weights
(3) m_E ← (1/S) ∑_{s=1}^{S} g_s,E                    . mean gates per expert
(4) for s ← 1 to S do
(5)   g1, e1, g2, e2 = top_2(g_s,E)                  . top-2 gates and expert indices
(6)   g1 ← g1/(g1 + g2)                              . normalized g1
(7)   c ← c_e1                                       . position in e1 expert buffer
(8)   if c_e1 < C then
(9)     G_s,e1 ← g1                                  . e1 expert combine weight for x_s
(10)  end
(11)  c_e1 ← c + 1                                   . incrementing e1 expert decisions count
(12) end
(13) ℓ_aux = (1/E) ∑_{e=1}^{E} (c_e/S) · m_e
(14) for s ← 1 to S do
(15)  g1, e1, g2, e2 = top_2(g_s,E)                  . top-2 gates and expert indices
(16)  g2 ← g2/(g1 + g2)                              . normalized g2
(17)  rnd ← uniform(0, 1)                            . dispatch to second-best expert with probability ∝ 2 · g2
(18)  c ← c_e2                                       . position in e2 expert buffer
(19)  if c < C ∧ 2 · g2 > rnd then
(20)    G_s,e2 ← g2                                  . e2 expert combine weight for x_s
(21)  end
(22)  c_e2 ← c + 1
(23) end

patterns such as uneven partitions, and finally generates a single program to be launched on all devices
for parallel execution.
3.1 Positions-wise Mixture-of-Expert Layer Expressed in Linear Algebra
Our model implementation (Algorithm 2) views the whole accelerator cluster as a single device and
expresses its core mathematical algorithm in a few tensor operations independent of the concrete
setup of the cluster. Einstein summation notation [30] (i.e., tf.einsum) is a powerful construct to
concisely express the model and we use it extensively in our implementation. The softmax gates
computation is trivially expressed by one einsum followed by the softmax function. Dispatching
of inputs to selected experts is expressed by a single einsum between the dispatching mask and the
input. All FFN_e weights are combined into single 3-D tensors wi and wo and the computation by
FFN_1 ... FFN_E is expressed using 3 operators (two einsum and one relu). Finally, taking weighted
average of all experts output into the final output is expressed in another einsum.
Top2Gating in Algorithm 2 computes the union of all group-local G_S,E described in Algorithm 1.
combine_weights is a 4-D tensor with shape [G, S, E, C]. The value combine_weights[g,
s, e, c] is non-zero when the input token s in group g is sent to the input buffer of expert e at buffer
position c. For a specific g and s, a slice combine_weight[g, s, :, :] contains at most two
non-zero vaules. Binary dispatch_mask is produced from combine_weights by simply setting all
non-zero values to 1.
We need to choose the number of groups G and the number of experts E properly so that the algorithm
can scale to a cluster with D devices. It is worthwhile to analyze its overall computation complexity
(the total number of floating point operations) for a training step given a training batch of N tokens.

Algorithm 2: Forward pass of the Positions-wise MoE layer. The underscored letter (e.g., G and
E) indicates the dimension along which a tensor will be partitioned.
1 gates = softmax ( einsum ( "GSM , ME - >GSE " , inputs , wg ))
2 combine_weights , dispatch_mask = Top2Gating ( gates )
3 dispatched_expert_inputs = einsum (
4   "GSEC ,GSM - >EGCM " , dispatch_mask , reshaped_inputs )
5 h = einsum ( "EGCM ,EMH - >EGCH " , dispatched_expert_inputs , wi )
6 h = relu ( h )
7 expert_outputs = einsum ( "EGCH ,EHM - >GECM " , h , wo )
8 outputs = einsum (
9   "GSEC ,GECM - >GSM " , combine_weights , expert_outputs )

We analyze Algorithm 2 computation complexity scaling with number the of devices D with the
following assumptions: a) number of tokens per device N/D = O(1) is constant; b) G = O(D),
S = O(1) and N = O(GS) = O(D); c) M = O(1), H = O(1); d) E = O(D); and e)
C = O(2S/E) = O(1/D), D < S and is a positive integer.
The total number of floating point operations FLOPS in Algorithm 2:
FLOPS_Softmax + FLOPS_Top2Gating + FLOPS_Dispatch|Combine + FLOPS_FFN =
O(GSME) + O(GSEC) + O(GSMEC) + O(EGCHM) =
O(D · 1 · 1 · D) + O(D · 1 · D · 1/D) + O(D · 1 · 1 · D · 1/D) + O(D · D · 1/D · 1 · 1) =
O(D^2) + O(D) + O(D) + O(D)
and consequently per-device FLOPS/D = O(D) + O(1) + O(1) + O(1). Per-device softmax
complexity FLOPS_softmax/D = O(D) is linear in number of devices, but in practice is dominated
by other terms since D << H and D < S. As a result FLOPS/D could be considered O(1),
satisfying sublinear scaling design requirements. Section 5 verifies this analysis empirically.
In addition to the computation cost, we have non-constant cross-device communication cost, but it
grows at a modest rate O(√D) when we increase D (Section 5).
3.2 GShard Annotation API for Parallel Execution
Due to the daunting size and computation demand of tensors in Algorithm 1, we have to parallelize
the algorithm over many devices. An immediate solution of how to shard each tensor in the algorithm
is illustrated by underscored letters in Algorithm 2. The sharding API in GShard allows us to annotate
tensors in the program to selectively specify how they should be partitioned. This information is
propagated to the compiler so that the compiler can automatically apply transformations for parallel
execution. We use the following APIs in TensorFlow/Lingvo [31] in our work.
• replicate(tensor) annotates tensor to be replicated across partitions, and returns the an-
notated tensor. This is often used for the non-MoE layers in our model to replicate the
weights.
• split(tensor, split_dimension, num_partitions) annotates tensor to be partitioned along
split_dimension, and returns the annotated tensor. Partition i is placed on the i'th device,
and num_partitions must not exceed the number of devices on the system.
• shard(tensor, device_assignment) generalizes split() to allow partitioning multiple
dimensions and specifying the placement of each partition. Appendix A.3 describes this
API with more details.

Note that the invocations to split or shard only adds annotations and does not change the logical
shape in the user program. The user still works with full shapes and does not need to worry about
issues like uneven partitioning.
GShard is general in the sense that the simple APIs apply to all dimensions in the same way.
The sharded dimensions could include batch (data-parallelism), feature, expert, and even spatial
dimensions in image models, depending on the use cases. Also, since the sharding annotation is per
tensor, different parts of the model can be partitioned in different ways. This flexibility enables us to
partition the giant MoE weights and switch partition modes between MoE and non-MoE layers, as
well as uses cases beyond this paper, e.g., spatial partitioning of large images [32] (Appendix A.4).
With the above sharding APIs, we can express the sharding strategy shown in Algorithm 2 as below.
The input tensor is split along the first dimension and the gating weight tensor is replicated. After
computing the dispatched expert inputs, we apply split to change the sharding from the group (G)
dimension to the expert (E) dimension. D is device count.
1 # Partition inputs along group ( G ) dim .
2 + inputs = split ( inputs , 0 , D )
3 # Replicate the gating weights
4 + wg = replicate ( wg )
5 gates = softmax ( einsum ( " GSM , ME - > GSE " , inputs , wg ))
6 combine_weights , dispatch_mask = Top2Gating ( gating_logits )
7 dispatched_expert_inputs = einsum (
8   " GSEC , GSM - > EGCM " , dispatch_mask , reshaped_inputs )
9 # Partition dispatched inputs along expert ( E ) dim .
10 + dispatched_expert_inputs = split ( dispatched_expert_inputs , 0 , D )
11 h = einsum ( " EGCM , EMH - > EGCH " , dispatched_expert_inputs , wi )
12 ...
Per-tensor sharding assignment As shown in the example above, users are not required to annotate
every tensor in the program. Annotations are typically only required on a few important operators
like Einsums in our model and the compiler uses its own heuristics to infer sharding for the rest of
the tensors. For example, since the input tensor is partitioned along G and the weight tensor is
replicated, the compiler chooses to partition the einsum output along the same G dimension (Line
5). Similarly, since both inputs are partitioned along the G dimension for the input dispatch einsum
(Line 7), the output sharding is inferred to be split along the G dimension, and then we add the split
annotation on the output to reshard along the E dimension. Some annotations in the above example
could also be determined by the compiler (e.g., replicate(wg)) but it is recommended to annotate
the initial input and final output tensors of the computation.
The compiler currently uses an iterative data-flow analysis to propagate sharding information from
an operator to its neighbors (operands and users), starting from the user-annotated operators. The
analysis tries to minimize the chance of resharding by aligning the sharding decisions of adjacent
operators. There could be other approaches such as integer programming or machine-learning
methods, but improving the automatic sharding assignment is not the focus of this paper and we leave
it as future work.
Mixing manual and automatic sharding Automatic partitioning with sharding annotations is
often enough for common cases, but GShard also has the flexibility to allow mixing manually
partitioned operators with auto-partitioned operators. This provides users with more controls on how
operators are partitioned, and one example is that the user has more run-time knowledge beyond
the operators' semantics. For example, neither XLA's nor TensorFlow's Gather operator definition
conveys information about the index bounds for different ranges in the input, but the user might
know that a specific Gather operator shuffles data only within each partition. In this case, the
user can trivially partition the operator by simply shrinking the dimension size and performing a
local Gather; otherwise, the compiler would need to be conservative about the index range and add
unnecessary communication overhead. For example, the dispatching Einsum (Line 3) in Algorithm 2
in Algorithm 2, which uses an one-hot matrix to dispatch inputs, can be alternatively implemented
with a Gather operator using trivial manual partitioning, while the rest of the model is partitioned
automatically. Below is the pseudocode illustrating this use case.
1 # input has shape [G , S , M ]. split () does not change logical shape .
2 input = split ( input , 0 , num_devices )
3 # s_indices has shape [E , G , C , 1]. Values : indices to S in input .
4 s_indices = split ( s_indices , 1 , num_devices )
5
6 # Begin manual partitioning .
7 # partitioned_input has shape [ G / num_devices , S , M ]
8 partitioned_input = auto_to_manual_spmd_partition ( input )
9 # partitioned_s_indices has shape [E , G / num_devices , C , 1]
10 partitioned_s_indices = auto_to_manual_spmd_partition ( s_indices )
11 # Concat with G indices in partitioned_input : Iota on G dimension .
12 partitioned_gs_indices = concat (
13   iota ([ E , G / num_devices , C , 1] , 1) , partitioned_s_indices , 3)
14 # partitioned_data has shape [E , G / num_devices , C , M ]
15 partitioned_data = gather (
16   partitioned_input , partitioned_gs_indices )
17
18 # Switch back to auto partitioning .
19 # data has shape [E , G , C , M ]
20 data = manual_to_auto_spmd_partition ( partitioned_data )
21 ...
3.3 The XLA SPMD Partitioner for GShard
This section describes the compiler infrastructure that automatically partitions a computation graph
based on sharding annotations. Sharding annotations inform the compiler about how each tensor
should be distributed across devices. The SPMD (Single Program Multiple Data) partitioner (or
"partitioner" for simplicity) is a compiler component that transforms a computation graph into a single
program to be executed on all devices in parallel. This makes the compilation time near constant
regardless of the number of partitions, which allows us to scale to thousands of partitions.
We implemented the partitioner in the XLA compiler [28]. Multiple frontend frameworks including
TensorFlow, JAX, PyTorch and Julia already have lowering logic to transform their graph representa-
tion to XLA HLO graph. XLA also has a much smaller set of operators compared to popular frontend
frameworks like TensorFlow, which reduces the burden of implementing a partitioner without harm-
ing generality, because the existing lowering from frontends performs the heavy-lifting to make it
expressive. Although we developed the infrastructure in XLA, the techniques we describe here can
be applied to intermediate representations in other machine learning frameworks (e.g., ONNX [33],
TVM Relay [34], Glow IR [35]).
XLA models a computation as a dataflow graph where nodes are operators and edges are tensors
flowing between operators. The core of the partitioner is per-operation handling that transforms a
full-sized operator into a partition-sized operator according to the sharding specified on the input
and output. When a computation is partitioned, various patterns of cross-device data transfers are
introduced. In order to maximize the performance at large scale, it is essential to define a core set of
communication primitives and optimize those for the target platform.
3.3.1 Communication Primitives
Since the partitioner forces all the devices to run the same program, the communication patterns are
also regular and XLA defines a set of collective operators that perform MPI-style communications [36].
We list the common communication primitives we use in the SPMD partitioner below.

CollectivePermute This operator specifies a list of source-destination pairs, and the input data of a
source is sent to the corresponding destination. It is used in two places: changing a sharded tensor's
device order among partitions, and halo exchange as discussed later in this section.
AllGather This operator concatenates tensors from all participants following a specified order. It is
used to change a sharded tensor to a replicated tensor.
AllReduce This operator performs elementwise reduction (e.g., summation) over the inputs from
all participants. It is used to combine partially reduced intermediate tensors from different partitions.
In a TPU device network, AllReduce has a constant cost when the number of partition grows
(Section 5.2). It is also a commonly used primitive with efficient implementation in other types of
network topology [37].
AllToAll This operator logically splits the input of each participant along one dimension, then
sends each piece to a different participant. On receiving data pieces from others, each participant
concatenates the pieces to produce its result. It is used to reshard a sharded tensor from one dimension
to another dimension. AllToAll is an efficient way for such resharding in a TPU device network,
where its cost increases sublinearly when the number of partitions grows (Section 5.2).
3.3.2 Per-Operator SPMD Partitioning
The core of the partitioner is the per-operator transformation from a full-sized operator into a
partition-sized operator according to the specified sharding. While some operators (e.g., elementwise)
are trivial to support, we discuss several common cases where cross-partition communications are
required.
There are a few important technical challenges in general cases, which we will cover in Section 3.3.3.
To keep the discussion more relevant to the MoE model, this section focuses on Einsum partitioning
to illustrate a few communication patterns. And to keep it simple for now, we assume that all tensors
are evenly partitioned, which means the size of the dimension to partitition is a multiple of the
partition count.
Einsum Case Study Einsum is the most critical operator in implementing the MoE model. They
are represented as a Dot operation in XLA HLO, where each operand (LHS or RHS) consists of three
types of dimensions:
• Batch dimensions are the embarrassingly parallel dimensions. The same set of batch
dimensions must exist in all of LHS, RHS and the output, and each element in the output
only depends on the corresponding batch in LHS and RHS.
• Contracting dimensions only exist in the operands. LHS and RHS must have the same set
of contracting dimensions, and they are summed up and collapsed in the output.
• Non-contracting dimensions are also parallel dimensions that exist in one of the operands
and the output. Each of LHS and RHS has its own set of non-contracting dimensions, which
are inherited by the output.
Sharding propagation prioritizes choosing the same sharding on batch dimensions of LHS, RHS and
output, because that would avoid any cross-partition communication. However, that is not always
possible, and we need cross-partition communication in the following three cases.
• Resharding. In the MoE model we built, the expert dispatching logic (Line 3 in Algorithm 2)
requires switching the partitioned dimension after an Einsum. Since resharding is efficient
(Section 5.2) with AllToAll, we first execute the Einsum locally, then reshard it to the
desired dimension, as shown in Figure 4a.
• Accumulating partial results. If the inputs are partitioned along contracting dimensions,
the local result is partial and we need to use an AllReduce to combine them and produce
the final result, as shown in Figure 4b.
• Slicing in a loop. For certain scenarios, we also implemented an algorithm similar to
Cannon's algorithm [38], in order to limit the size of tensors on each partition. For example,

if both operands are partitioned on a non-contracting dimension, we cannot compute the
local Einsum directly since operands have different non-contracting dimensions. Replicating
one of the operands would not cause redundant computation, but it requires the replicated
operand to fit in device memory. Therefore, if the size of the operand is too large, we instead
keep both operands partitioned and use a loop to iterate over each slice of the result, and use
CollectivePermute to communicate the input slices (Figure 4c).
3.3.3 Supporting a Complete Set of Operators
We solved several additional challenges to enable the SPMD partitioner to support a complete set of
operators without extra constraints of tensor shapes or operator configurations. These challenges often
involve asymmetric compute or communication patterns between partitions, which are particularly
hard to express in SPMD, since the single program needs to be general enough for all partitions. We
cannot simply create many branches in the single program based on the run-time device ID, because
that would lead to an explosion in program size.
Static shapes and uneven partitioning XLA requires tensor shapes to be static. However, when
a computation is partitioned, it's not always the case that all partitions have the same input/output
shapes, because dimensions may not be evenly divisible by the number of partitions. In those cases,
the size of the shape is rounded up to the next multiple of partition count, and the data in that padded
region can be arbitrary.
When computing an operator, we may need to fill in a known value to the padded region for correctness.
For example, if we need to partition an Reduce-Add operator, the identity value of zero needs to be
used. Consider an example where the partitioned dimension (15) cannot be divided into 2 (partition
count), so Partition 1 has one more column than needed. We create an Iota operator of range [0, 8),
add the partition offset (calculated from PartitionId × 8), and compare with the full shape offset
(15). Based on the predicate value, we select either from the operand or from zero, and the result is
the masked operand.
Static operator configurations XLA operators have static configurations, like the padding, stride,
and dilation defined in Convolution. However, different partitions may not execute with the same
operator configuration. E.g., for a Convolution, the left-most partition applies padding to its left
while the right-most partition applies padding to its right. In such cases, the partitioner may choose
configurations that make some partitions to produce slightly more data than needed, then slice out the
the irrelevant parts. Appendix A.4 discusses examples for Convolution and similar operators.
Halo exchange Certain operators have a communication pattern which involves partial data ex-
change with neighboring partitions, which we call halo exchange. We use the CollectivePermute
operator to exchange halo data between partitions.
The most typical use case of halo exchange is for partitinoning window-based operators (e.g.,
Convolution, ReduceWindow), because neighboring partitions may require overlapping input data
(Figure 5a). In practice, halo-exchange for these operator often needs to be coupled with proper
padding, slicing, and masking due to advanced use of window configurations (dilation, stride, and
padding), as well as uneven halo sizes. We describe various scenarios in Appendix A.4.
Another use of halo exchange is for data formatting operators that change the size of the shape. For
example, after a Slice or Pad operator, the shape of the tensor changes, and so do the boundaries
between partitions. This requires us to realign the data on different partitions, which can be handled
as a form of halo exchange (Figure 5b).
Other data formatting operators, although logically not changing the size of the shape, may also need
halo exchange, specifically due to the static shape constraint and uneven partitioning. For example,
the Reverse operator reverses the order of elements in a tensor, but if it is partitioned unevenly,
we need to shift data across partitions to keep the padding logically to the right of the result tensor.
Another example is Reshape. Consider reshaping a tensor from [3, 2] to [6], where the input is

unevenly partitioned in 2 ways on the first dimension (partition shape [2, 2]), and the output is also
partitioned in 2 ways (partition shape [3]). There is padding on the input due to uneven partitioning,
but after Reshape, the output tensor no longer has padding; as a result, halo exchange is required in
a similar way to Slice (Figure 5c).
Compiler optimizations The SPMD partitioner creates various data formatting operators in order
to perform slicing, padding, concatenation, masking and halo exchange. To address the issue, we
leverage XLA's fusion capabilities on TPU, as well as code motion optimizations for slicing and
padding, to largely hide the overhead of data formatting. As a result, the run-time overhead is
typically negligible, even for convolutional networks where masking and padding are heavily used.
4 Massively Multilingual, Massive Machine Translation (M4)
4.1 Multilingual translation
We chose multilingual neural machine translation (MT) [39, 40, 41] to validate our design for efficient
training with GShard. Multilingual MT, which is an inherently multi-task learning problem, aims at
building a single neural network for the goal of translating multiple language pairs simultaneously.
This extends our line of work [15, 14, 16] towards a universal machine translation model [42], i.e. a
single model that can translate between more than hundred languages, in all domains. Such massively
multilingual translation models are not only convenient for stress testing models at scale, but also
shown to be practically impactful in real-world production systems [43].
In massively multilingual MT, there are two criteria that define success in terms of the model quality,
1) improvements attained on languages that have large amounts of training data (high resourced), and
2) improvements for languages with limited data (low-resource). As the number of language pairs
(tasks) to be modeled within a single translation model increases, positive language transfer [44]
starts to deliver large gains for low-resource languages. Given the number of languages considered,
M4 has a clear advantage on improving the low-resource tasks. On the contrary, for high-resource
languages the increased number of tasks limits per-task capacity within the model, resulting in lower
translation quality compared to a models trained on a single language pair. This capacity bottleneck
for high resourced languages can be relaxed by increasing the model size to massive scale in order to
satisfy the need for additional capacity [14, 15].
Massively multilingual, massive MT consequently aims at striking a balance between increasing
positive transfer by massive multilinguality and mitigating the capacity bottleneck by massive scaling.
While doing so, scaling the model size and the number of languages considered have to be coupled
with a convenient neural network architecture. In order to amplify the positive transfer and reduce the
negative transfer, one can naturally design a model architecture that harbours shared components
across languages (shared sub-networks), along with some language specific ones (unshared, language
specific sub-networks). However, the search space in model design (deciding on what to share) grows
rapidly as the number of languages increase, making heuristic-based search for a suitable architecture
impractical. Thereupon the need for approaches based on learning the wiring pattern of the neural
networks from the data emerge as scalable and practical way forward.
In this section, we advocate how conditional computation [45, 46] with sparsely gated mixture of
experts [16] fits into the above detailed desiderata and show its efficacy by scaling neural machine
translation models beyond 1 trillion parameters, while keeping the training time of such massive
networks practical. E.g. a 600B GShard model for M4 can process 1T tokens in 250k training
steps in under 4 days. We experiment with increasing the model capacity by adding more and more
experts into the model and study the factors playing role in convergence, model quality and training
efficiency. Further, we demonstrate how conditional computation can speed up the training [25] and
how sparsely gating/routing each token through the network can efficiently be learned without any
prior knowledge on task or language relatedness, exemplifying the capability of learning the routing
decision directly from the data.

4.2 Dataset and Baselines
The premise of progressively larger models to attain greater quality necessitates large amounts of
training data to begin with [3]. Following the prior work on dense scaling for multilingual machine
translation [15, 14], we committed to the realistic test bed of MT in the wild, and use a web-scale
in-house dataset. The training corpus, mined from the web [47], contains parallel documents for
100 languages, to and from English, adding up to a total of 25 billion training examples. A few
characteristics of the training set is worth mentioning. Having mined from the web, the joint corpus is
considerably noisy while covering a diverse set of domains and languages. Such large coverage comes
with a heavy imbalance between languages in terms of the amount of examples per language pair. This
imbalance follows a sharp power law, ranging from billions of examples for high-resourced languages
to tens of thousands examples for low-resourced ones. While the above mentioned characteristics
constitute a challenge for our study, it also makes the overall attempt as realistic as possible. We refer
reader to [15, 14] for the additional details of the dataset being used.
We focus on improving the translation quality (measured in terms of BLEU score [48]) from all 100
languages to English. This resulted in approximately 13 billion training examples to be used for model
training. In order to form our baselines, we trained separate bilingual Neural Machine Translation
models for each language pair (e.g. a single model for German-to-English), tuned depending on
the available training data per-language. Rather than displaying individual BLEU scores for each
language pair, we follow the convention of placing the baselines along the x-axis at zero, and report
the ∆BLEU trendline of each massively multilingual model trained with GShard (see Figure 6).
The x-axis in Figure 6 is sorted from left-to-right in the decreasing order of amount of available
training data, where the left-most side corresponds to high-resourced languages, and low-resourced
languages on the right-most side respectively. To reiterate, our ultimate goal in universal machine
translation is to amass the ∆BLEU trendline of a single multilingual model above the baselines for
all languages considered. We also include a variant of dense 96 layer Transformer Encoder-Decoder
network T(96L) trained with GPipe pipeline parallelism on the same dataset as another baseline
(dashed trendline in Figure 6). Training to convergence took over 6 weeks on 2048 TPU v3 cores,
outperforming the original GPipe T(128L) [15] and is the strongest single dense model baseline we
use in our comparisons.
4.3 Sparsely-Gated MoE Transformer: Model and Training
Scaling Transformer architecture has been an exploratory research track recently [49, 50, 51]. Without
loss of generality, emerging approaches follow scaling Transformer by stacking more and more layers
[49, 15], widening the governing dimensions of the network (i.e. model dimension, hidden dimension
or number of attention heads) [4, 11] and more recently learning the wiring structure with architecture
search [52]. For massively multilingual machine translation, [15] demonstrated the best practices
of scaling using GPipe pipeline parallelism; in which a 128 layer Transformer model with 6 billion
parameters is shown to be effective at improving high-resource languages while exhibiting the highest
positive transfer towards low-resource languages. Although very promising, and satisfying our
desiderata for universal translation, dense scaling of Transformer architecture has practical limitations
which we referred in Section 1 under training efficiency.
We aim for practical training time and seek for architectures that warrant training efficiency. Our
strategy has three pillars; increase the depth of the network by stacking more layers similar to
GPipe [15], increase the width of the network by introducing multiple replicas of the feed-forward
networks (experts) as described in Section 2.2 and make use of learned routing modules to (sparsely)
assign tokens to experts as described in Section 2.1. With this three constituents, we obtain an

[Figure 6 / Table data]
600B | 1B+ examples per language | ← high-resouce languages ... low-resource languages → | 10k examples per language
MoE(2048,36L) - 600B
MoE(2048,12L) - 200B
MoE(512E,36L) - 150B
MoE(512E,12L) - 50B
MoE(128E,36L) - 37B
MoE(128E,12L) - 12.5B
T(96L) - 2.3B

Id   Model               BLEU avg.   ∆BLEU avg.   Weights
(1)  MoE(2048E, 36L)     44.3        13.5         600B
(2)  MoE(2048E, 12L)     41.3        10.5         200B
(3)  MoE(512E, 36L)      43.7        12.9         150B
(4)  MoE(512E, 12L)      40.0        9.2          50B
(5)  MoE(128E, 36L)      39.0        8.2          37B
(6)  MoE(128E, 12L)      36.7        5.9          12.5B
*    T(96L)              36.9        6.1          2.3B
*    Baselines           30.8        -            100×0.4B

Figure 6: Translation quality comparison of multilingual MoE Transformer models trained with
GShard and monolingual baselines. Positions along the x-axis represent languages, raging from high-
to low-resource. ∆BLEU represents the quality gain of a single multilingual model compared to a
monolingual Transformer model trained and tuned for a specific language. MoE Transformer models
trained with GShard are reported with solid trend-lines. Dashed trend-line represents a single 96
layer multilingual Transformer model T(96L) trained with GPipe on same dataset. Each trend-line is
smoothed by a sliding window of 10 for clarity. (Best seen in color)
easy to scale, efficient to train and highly expressive architecture, which we call Sparsely-Gated
Mixture-of-Experts Transformer or MoE Transformer in short.
Model Details To detail the model specifics, each expert is designed to have the same shape of a
regular Transformer feed-forward network, and experts (MoE layers) are distributed once in every
other Transformer layer. We tied the number of devices used for training to the number of experts
per MoE layer for simplicity, although this is not a requirement. During training, we use float32 for
both model weights and activations in order to ensure training stability. We ran additional scalability
experiments with MoE(2048E, 60L) with bfloat16 [53] activations with total of 1 trillion model
weights. Although trainable by careful and manual diagnostics, with deep 1 trillion model we
encountered several trainability issues with numerical stability, hence did not include the results for
the sake of reproducibility. For more model and training details, please see Appendix A.2.
4.4 Results
Before going into the details of training efficiency, we first investigate the effect of various design
choices on building MoE Transformer. In order to prune the search space, we explored varying two

variables, number of layers in the Transformer encoder-decoder stack (L) and the total number of
experts used for every other MoE layer (E).

Id   Model               Experts Per-layer   Experts total   TPU v3 Cores   Enc+Dec layers   Weights
(1)  MoE(2048E, 36L)     2048                36684           2048           36               600B
(2)  MoE(2048E, 12L)     2048                12228           2048           12               200B
(3)  MoE(512E, 36L)      512                 9216            512            36               150B
(4)  MoE(512E, 12L)      512                 3072            512            12               50B
(5)  MoE(128E, 36L)      128                 2304            128            36               37B
(6)  MoE(128E, 12L)      128                 768             128            12               12.5B
*    MoE(2048E, 60L)     2048                61440           2048           60               1T
Table 1: MoE Transformer model family. To achieve desired capacity we i) increased the depth by
stacking more layers, ii) increased the width of the network by scaling the number of experts per
MoE layer along with number of cores used for training.
For depth, we tested three different options, 12 (original
Transformer depth, which consists of 6 encoder and 6 decoder layers), 36 and 60 layers. For the
number of experts that replaces every other feed-forward layer, we also tested three options, namely
128, 512 and 2048 experts. Note that, the number of devices used for training, is fixed to be equal to
the number of experts per-layer, using 128, 512 and 2048 cores respectively independent of the depth
being experimented. Please also see the detailed description in Table 1 for model configurations.
For each experiment (rows of the Table 1), we trained the corresponding MoE Transformer model
until it has seen 1 trillion (10^12) tokens. The model checkpoint at this point is used in the model
evaluation. We did not observe any over-fitting patterns by this point in any experiment. Instead, we
observed that the training loss continued to improve if we kept training longer. We evaluated BLEU
scores that the models achieved for all language pairs on a held-out test set. Figure 6 reports all our
results.
Here we share a qualitative analysis for each experiment and discuss the implication of each setup on
high- and low-resource languages in order to track our progress towards universal translation. To
ground the forthcoming analysis, it is worth restating the expected behavior of the underlying quality
gains. In order to improve the quality for both high- and low-resource languages simultaneously
within a single model, scaled models must mitigate capacity bottleneck issue by allocating enough
capacity to high-resource tasks, while amplifying the positive transfer towards low-resource tasks
by facilitating sufficient parameter sharing. We loosely relate the expected learning dynamics of
such systems with the long-standing memorization and generalization dilemma, which is recently
studied along the lines of width vs depth scaling efforts [54]. Not only do we expect our models
to generalize better to the held-out test sets, we also expect them to exhibit high transfer capability
across languages as another manifestation of generalization performance [55].
Deeper Models Bring Consistent Quality Gains Across the Board We first investigate the rela-
tionship between the model depth and the model quality for both high- and low-resource languages.
Three different experiments are conducted in order to test the generalization performance, while
keeping the number of experts per-layer fixed. With an increasing number of per-layer experts for
each experiment (128, 512 and 2048), we tripled the depth of the network for each expert size, from
12 to 36. This resulted in three groups where experts per-layer fixed but three times the depth within
each group:
For each configuration shown in Fig. 6, we observed that increasing the depth (L) while keeping
the experts per-layer (E) fixed, brings consistent gains for both low and high resourced languages
(upwards ∆ shift along the y-axis), almost with a constant additive factor every time we scale the
depth from 12L to 36L (2-to-3 BLEU points on average as shown in the last column of Table 3).
Relaxing the Capacity Bottleneck Grants Pronounced Quality Gains Earlier in Section 4.1
we highlighted the influence of the capacity bottleneck on task interference, resulting in degraded
quality especially for high resourced languages. Later we alleviated this complication by increasing
the number of experts per-layer, which in return resulted in a dramatic increase in the number of
parameters (weight) of the models studied. Here we investigate whether this so called capacity

bottleneck is distinctly observable and explore the impact on model quality and efficiency once it
is relaxed. To that end, we first consider three models with identical depths (12L), with increasing
number of experts per-layer: 128, 512 and 2048. As we increase the number of experts per-layer from
128 to 512 by a factor of four, we notice a large jump in model quality, +3.3 average BLEU score
across 100 languages. However again by four folds scaling of the number of experts per-layer, from
512 to 2048, yields only +1.3 average BLEU scores. Despite the significant quality improvement,
this drop in gains hints the emergence of diminishing returns.
Speculatively, the capacity bottleneck is expected to be residing between 128 to 512 experts, for
the particular parametrization, number of languages and the amount of training data used in our
experimental setup. Once the bottleneck is relaxed, models enjoy successive scaling of the depth,
which can be seen by comparing 12 versus 36 layer models both with 128 experts. Interestingly
increasing the depth does not help as much if the capacity bottleneck is not relaxed.
Having More Experts Improve Quality Especially for High-Resourced Tasks Another dimen-
sion that could shed light on the quality gains of scaling in multi-task models is the contrast between
high and low resource language improvements. As mentioned before, low resourced languages
benefit from transfer while high resource languages seek for added capacity. Next we examine the
effect of increasing the experts per-layer while fixing the depth.
As can be seen in Figure 6, for 12 layer models increase in the expert number yields larger gains
for high resourced languages as opposed to earlier revealed diminishing returns for low-resourced
languages. A similar pattern is observed also for 36 layer models. While adding more experts relaxes
the capacity bottleneck, at the same time it reduces the amount of transfer due to a reduction of the
shared sub-networks.
Deep-Dense Models are Better at Positive Transfer towards Low-Resource Tasks Lastly we
look into the impact of the depth on low-resourced tasks as a loose corollary to our previous
experiment. In order to do so, we include a dense model with 96 layers T(96L) trained with GPipe
on the same data into our analysis. We compare T(96L) with the shallow MoE(128E, 12L) model.
While the gap between the two models measured to be almost constant for the majority of the
high-to-mid resourced languages, the gap grows in favor of the dense-deep T(96L) model as we get
into the low-resourced regime. Following our previous statement, as the proportion of the shared
sub-networks across tasks increase, which is 100% for dense T(96L), the bandwidth for transfer gets
maximized and results in a comparably better quality against its shallow counterpart. Also notice
that, the same transfer quality to the low-resourced languages can be achieved with MoE(36E, 128L)
which contains 37 billion parameters.
We conjecture that, increasing the depth might potentially increase the extent of transfer to low-
resource tasks hence generalize better along that axis. But we also want to highlight that the models
in comparison have a disproportionate training resource requirements. We again want to promote the
importance of training efficiency, which is the very topic we studied next.
4.5 Training Efficiency
In this section we focus on the training efficiency of MoE Transformer models. So far, we have
seen empirical evidence how scaling the models along various axes bring dramatic quality gains,
and studied the factors affecting the extent of the improvements. In order to measure the training
efficiency, we first keep track of the number of tokens being processed to reach a certain training loss
and second we keep track of the wall-clock time for a model to process certain number of tokens.
Note that, we focus on the training time and training loss while varying other factors, as opposed to
test error, which we analyzed in the previous section.
Deeper models are more sample efficient, converge faster with fewer examples It has been
shown that, deeper models are better at sample efficiency, reaching better training/test error given the
same amount of training examples [15, 56], commonly attributed to the acceleration effect of over-
parametrization [1]. We empirically test the hypothesis again using GShard with MoE Transformers
and share trade-offs for models that are not only deep, but also sparsely activated.

For this purpose, we compare number of tokens being processed by each model to reach a preset
training loss. A general trend we observe from Table 2 is that, MoE Transformer models with 3 times
the depth need 2 to 3 times fewer tokens to reach the preset training loss thresholds. For example
MoE(128E, 12L) takes 3 times the number of tokens to reach 0.7 training cross-entropy compared to
MoE(128E, 36L), (6) vs (5). We observe a similar trend for models with 512 and 2048 experts, (4) vs
(3) and (2) vs (1).

Id   Model              Cores   Billion tokens to cross-entropy of  0.7    0.6    0.5
(1)  MoE(2048E, 36L)    2048                                        82     175    542
(2)  MoE(2048E, 12L)    2048                                        176    484    1780
(3)  MoE(512E, 36L)     512                                         66     170    567
(4)  MoE(512E, 12L)     512                                         141    486    -
(5)  MoE(128E, 36L)     128                                         321    1074   -
(6)  MoE(128E, 12L)     128                                         995    -      -
Table 2: The number of tokens have been seen by a model during training to reach three different
cross-entropy loss. A general trend is that deeper models are more sample efficient and converge
faster than the comparable shallow ones.
Another intriguing observation from Table 2, is again related to the presence of capacity bottleneck.
Comparing the models with same depth, (5), (3) and (1), we notice a significant drop in the number
of tokens required to reach training loss of 0.7, as we transition from 128 to 512 number of experts.
Practically that is where we observed the capacity bottleneck was residing, aligning with the hypothe-
sis in Section 4.4. After this phase shift, models with ample capacity tend to exhibit similar sample
efficiency characteristics, as in models (3) and (1).
Largest model (600B) can be trained under 4 days achieving the best quality Next we delve
deeper into the interaction between model size and wall-clock time spent for training. We monitor
number of TPU cores being used, training steps per-second, total number of tokens per batch, TPU
core years, and actual wall-clock time spent in days for training (see Table 3 columns respectively).
We start with investigating one of the largest models we trained, MoE(2048E, 36L) with 600 billion
parameters, model with id (1). Having utilized 2048 TPU cores for 4 days, this model achieves the
best translation quality in terms of average BLEU, but also takes a total of 22.4 TPU years to train.
While we have not seen any signs that the quality improvements plateau as we scale up our models,
we strive for finding cost-effective solutions for scaling.
Results in Table 3 again validates scaling with conditional computation is way more practical
compared to dense scaling. Given the same number of TPU cores used by (1), the dense scaling
variant, T(96L), appears to be taking more than ten times to train (235 TPU core years), while trailing
behind in terms of model quality compared to models trained with GShard.

Id   Model              Cores   Steps per sec.   Batch sz. (Tokens)   TPU core years   Training time (days)   BLEU avg.
(1)  MoE(2048E, 36L)    2048    0.72             4M                   22.4             4.0                    44.3
(2)  MoE(2048E, 12L)    2048    2.15             4M                   7.5              1.4                    41.3
(3)  MoE(512E, 36L)     512     1.05             1M                   15.5             11.0                   43.7
(4)  MoE(512E, 12L)     512     3.28             1M                   4.9              3.5                    40.0
(5)  MoE(128E, 36L)     128     0.67             1M                   6.1              17.3                   39.0
(6)  MoE(128E, 12L)     128     2.16             1M                   1.9              5.4                    36.7
*    T(96L)             2048    -                4M                   ∼235.5           ∼42                    36.9
Table 3: Performance of MoE models with different number of experts and layers.
In this section, we benchmarked GShard with MoE Transformers applications to multilingual machine
translation (in particular to M4). We identified variables that are affecting the end result, such as

capacity bottleneck, positive transfer and training efficiency, and provided experimental results in
order to reveal the interplay between them. Next we will delve deep into performance related topics
of GShard, such as memory and runtime efficiency and communication benchmarks.
Figure 7: Per-device memory consumption in gigabytes. (MoE(128E, 12L), MoE(512E, 12L),
MoE(2048E, 12L), MoE(2048E, 24L), MoE(2048E, 36L), MoE(2048E, 60L); Activation, Weight)
5 Performance and Memory Consumption
This section discusses how well GShard achieves computation and memory efficiency on the TPU
platform. Our measurement and analysis show that the device memory consumption is roughly
constant when we increase the number of devices and experts, and the step time grows sublinearly,
i.e., 1.7x execution time increase when we scale the model by 16x from 128 devices to 2048 devices.
We also provide microbenchmarks and analyses for a variety of partitioned operators, which could
guide use cases beyond this paper.
5.1 Memory Efficiency and Scalability
In the GShard model, there are mainly three types of memory usage, all of which have constant
per-device sizes after SPMD partitioning, when the number of experts increases.
• Replicated weights (e.g. transformer feed-forward layers).
• Distributed weights (MoE feed-forward layers).
• Activations (output of each layer that is used in both forward and backward pass).
The O(1) memory scaling is demonstrated in Figure 7, which shows the per-device memory usage
distribution for different models. With a fixed number of layers, both weight memory and activation
memory stay constant when the number of experts increases.
On this other hand, weight memory and activation memory both scale linearly with the number of
layers. When the memory requirement exceeds available memory on each device, compiler-based
rematerialization will automatically recompute part of the activations in the backward pass in order
to reduce peak activation memory. This is why the activation size for MoE(2048E, 60L) is smaller
than MoE(2048E, 36L). The overhead of rematerialization is also optimized, e.g. only 28% and 34%
of the total cycles are spent on recomputation for 36L and 60L models respectively, and 0% for 12L
and 24L since they fit in device memory without rematerialization.
Figure 8: Measured vs roofline execution time breakdown. Only the forward pass is shown, and
the backward pass has similar breakdown. "MoE dispatch and combine" represents cross-partition
communication with AllToAll.
5.2 Runtime Efficiency and Scalability
Figure 8 shows the breakdown of execution time for an MoE layer and its adjacent Transformer layer.
It also compares the achieved performance to a roofline, which is estimated by assuming compute-,
memory-, or communication-bounded operations can achieve 100% of the peak FLOPS, memory
bandwidth, or interconnect bandwidth. This is a very optimistic estimate as many operators are
bounded by a mixed set of resources. At a smaller scale (128 experts), our model can achieve > 70%
of the roofline performance. The device time increases by 1.7x when we scale the model to 16x larger
(2048 experts), and can still achieve 48% of the roofline performance.
Before analyzing performance scalability, we recall the size scaling of relevant tensor dimensions as
discussed in Section 3.1. With D devices, the number of experts E and the group count G are both
set to O(D). The fractional per-group expert capacity C is set to O(1/D). This setup cannot scale
indefinitely, since C needs to be at least 1, but it is good enough to scale to thousands of experts.
Transformer layers and MoE feed-forward layer These are the dense parts of the model, which
are designed to achieve peak TPU utilization. On each device, these computations also have a
constant cost when we scale to more experts. Feed-forward layers and Transformer projections are
mainly large matrix multiplications that utilize the TPU's matrix unit well. These operations have
achieved > 85% peak FLOPS in our experiment. The attention operations are composed of mainly
batch matmuls, which are bounded by memory bandwidth when sequence lengths are small. As a
result, in our experiments attention operations only achieved > 30% peak FLOPS.
Gate computation In Figure 8, "Gate Einsum" represents the first two and the last Einsums in
Algorithm 2. The first Einsum is the projection that calculates per-expert input to softmax. It has an
O(D) cost, but it is a very small part of the layer. The other two Einsums are dispatching tokens
and combining expert results. They effectively implement Gather with one-hot matrices, which
are more expensive, but with constant O(GC) = O(1) cost that is independent from the number of
experts. The execution time of these Einsums increases by around 2x when we scale from 128 to
2048 experts (16x).
The remaining per-device gating computation involves many general-purpose computations like
ArgMax and Cumsum, which are either memory-bound or even sequential in nature, thus not designed
to utilize TPUs well. The majority of the time is spent on sequential Cumsum operations to invert
one-hot matrices that represent selected experts for each token to one-hot matrices that represent

selected tokens for each expert. The linear complexity of Cumsum is demonstrated in Figure 8. This
part of the gating computation also has an O(D) cost, but fortunately, similar to the Einsum before
softmax, it has a very small constant factor. It has negligible execution time with 128 experts, and
takes less than 10% of the total time spent in the MoE and Transformer layers with 2048 experts.
The most significant part of gating is communication, shown as "MoE dispatch and combine" in
Figure 8. These are AllToAll operators, and as we will discuss in Section 5.3, their cost is O(√D).
When the number experts grows 16x from 128 to 2048, the execution time increases by about 3.75x,
and their proportion of execution time in the MoE and Transformer increases from 16% to 36%.
5.3 Communication Microbenchmarks and Per-Operator Scalability
In this section, we measure and analyze the performance scalability of the SPMD partitioner for basic
operators, which can be used to guide use cases beyond the MoE model presented in this paper.
Performance scaling of communication primitives Two critical collective communication oper-
ators in the MoE model are AllReduce and AllToAll. AllReduce is used in accumulating partial
results, and AllToAll is used in resharding (Section 3.3.2). Figure 9 shows their performance
scalability from 16 to 2048 partitions. AllReduce on TPU has an execution time independent from
the number of devices. The variance in Figure 9 is due to specifics of each topology, e.g., whether it
is a square or a rectangle, and whether it is a torus or a mesh.
AllToAll, on the other hand, gets more expensive as the number of partitions grows, but in a
sublinear manner. On our 2D TPU cluster, AllToAll cost is roughly O(√D), where D is the
number of partitions. This is because with a fixed amount of data each partition sends (8MB or 32MB
in Figure 9), the total amount of data that all partitions send is d = O(D). Meanwhile, each data
piece needs to travel h = O(√D) hops on average, and there are overall l = O(D) device-to-device
links in the network. Therefore, if it is bandwidth-bound, the execution time of an AllToAll is
t = dh/l = O(D√D/D) = O(√D).
Even if it is latency-bound, the execution time will still be O(h) = O(√D). Comparing 2048
partitions and 16 partitions, while D grows by 128 times, the execution time of AllToAll only
increases by 9 times. This enables us to use resharding to efficiently implement cross-partition
dispatching (Figure 4a).
AllGather and CollectivePermute are easier to analyze. AllGather's output is D larger than the
input, and if we fix input size, then its communication cost is O(D). CollectivePermute has a one-
to-one communication pattern, and with reasonable device arrangement where the source-destination
pairs are close, its cost is O(1) for a fixed input size.

                                    O(D)        Total       Per-partition
Dimensions                          Compute     Compute     Communication
Add(A,A->A)                  A      O(D)        O(1)        0
Matmul(AB,BC->AC)            B      O(D)        O(1)        O(1) AR
Matmul(AB,BC->AC)            A      O(D)        O(1)        0
Matmul(AB,BC->AC)            A,B    O(D^2)      O(D)        O(D) AG or CP
Matmul(AB,BC->AC)            A,C    O(D^2)      O(D)        O(D) AG or CP
Reduce(AB->A)                A      O(D)        O(1)        0
Reduce(AB->B)                A      O(D)        O(1)        O(1) AR
Einsum(GSEC,GSM->EGCM)       G,E *  O(D)        O(1)        O(√D) AA
Convolution(BIXY,xyIO->BOXY) X **   O(D)        O(1)        O(1) CP
Table 4: Scalability of partitioned operators. Abbreviation for communication primitives: AR:
AllReduce, AG: AllGather, CP: CollectivePermute, AA: AllToAll. *This is the dispatch
Einsum in our model, where we set C to O(1/D). **I/O are the input/output feature dimensions, B
is the batch dimension, X/Y are input spatial dimensions, and x/y are the kernal spatial dimensions.

Figure 9: Performance scaling of communication, AllReduce and AllToAll. Log scale on both
axes. AllReduce cost is roughly O(1), and AllToAll cost is roughly O(√D), where D is the
number of partitions. We measure their performance with 8MB and 32MB data. For AllToAll, that
means each partition initially has 8MB (or 32MB) data, then divides it to D pieces, and sends each
piece to a different receiving partition.
Partitioned operator scalability We summarize the performance scalability for common operators
using GShard in Table 4. It contains the Einsum/Matmul examples in Section 3.3.2, and also other
common operators like Convolution and Reduce. The table includes the local compute on each
partition, as well as the required communication based on our analysis above.
Most operators in Table 4 have sublinear scalability in terms of both compute and communication,
which is consistent with our performance measurement of the MoE model. The O(1) scaling of
spatially partitioned convolutions also demonstrates the efficiency of GShard for image partitioning
(Appendix A.4).
However, the last two Matmul operators in Table 4 have O(D) scaling of per-partition compute and
communication, where they have unmatched sharding in the operands. This is not due to inefficiency
in the partitioning algorithm, but because the total compute in the full operator is very large (O(D^2)).
Different partitioning strategies can be used for these cases, producing different communication
primitives: replicating one operand will result in AllGather (requiring the replicated operand to fit
in device memory), while slicing in a loop (Figure 4c) will result in CollectivePermute.
6 Related Work
Neural networks Deep learning models have been very successful in advancing sub-fields of artificial
intelligence. For years, the fields have been continuously reporting new state of the art results
using varieties of model architectures for computer vision tasks [57, 58, 7], for natural language
understanding tasks [59, 60, 61], for speech recognition and synthesis tasks [62, 63, 64, 65, 66]. More
recently, attention-based Transformer models further advanced state of the art of these fields [10, 4].
Model scaling Both academic research and industry applications observed that larger neural networks
tend to perform better on large enough datasets and for complex tasks. Within a single model family,
simply making the network wider or deeper often improves the model quality empirically. E.g., deeper
ResNets performed better [8], bigger Transformer models achieved better translation quality [10],
models with larger vocabulary, or embedding or feature crosses work better, too [14, 13]. Across

different model families, it has also been observed that bigger models with larger model capacities not
only fit the training data better but also generalize better on test time [67, 68, 15]. This observation
motivated many research efforts to build much bigger neural networks than those typically used in
deep learning research models or production models. Shazeer et al. showed that a recurrent language
model with 69 billion parameters using mixture-of-expert layers achieved much lower test perplexity
for the one billion words (LM1B) benchmark [16]. Brown et al. showed that a non-sparse 175
billion parameters model is capable of exhibiting highly accurate few-shot performance on several
downstream NLP tasks.
Hardware Neural networks demand non-negligible amounts of computation power. To address
such a demand, special hardware (chips and networked machines) built for neural network training
and inference can be dated back to 25 years ago [69]. Since late 2000s, researchers started to
leverage GPUs to accelerate neural nets [70, 57, 71]. More recently, the industry also invested
heavily in building more dedicated hardware systems chasing for more cost-effective neural network
hardware [72]. Because the core computation of neural networks (various forms of summation
of multiplications: convolution, matrix multiplication, einsum) are highly parallelizable numerical
calculations, these chips are equipped with huge number of floating processing units (FPUs). Hence,
the compute power of these specially designed hardware grew dramatically. It is reported that GPU
price per flops dropped a factor of ten in just the last 4 years [73] and flops per watts increased by 2
magnitude over the past 12 years [74]. The widely available low-cost computation power is a major
enabler for the success of neural networks.
Software Software systems supporting neural networks evolved together with the advancement of the
underlying hardware [75, 76, 21, 77]. While the accelerators are highly parallel compute machines,
they are significantly more difficult to program directly. The frameworks made building neural
networks easier and abstracted away many hardware specific details from the practitioners. They in
turn rely on lower-level libraries to drive special hardware (accelerators) efficiently. E.g., CUDA [78]
for Nvidia's GPUs, or XLA for Google's TPUs [28]. These lower-level libraries are critical for
achieving high efficiency using these special hardware.
Parallelism in model training and inference Modern neural networks make extensive use of a
cluster of machines for training and inference, each of which equiped with several accelerators.
Data parallelism [57] is the most commonly used approach and is supported by major frameworks
(TensorFlow [21], PyTorch [22], JAX [79, 80]), where devices run the same program with different
input data and combine their local gradients before the weight updates. Model parallelism on the other
hand, partitions computation beyond the input batch, which is needed to build very large models. For
example, pipelining [15, 24] splits a large model's layers into multiple stages, while operator-level
partitioning [23, 81] splits individual operators into smaller parallel operators. GShard used a type of
operator-level partitioning to scale our model to a large number of parallel experts.
Automated parallelism Because programming in a distributed heterogeneous environment is chal-
lenging, particularly for high-level practitioners, deep-learning frameworks attempt to alleviate the
burden of their users from specifying how the distributed computation is done. For example, Tensor-
Flow [21] has support for data parallelism, and basic model parallelism with graph partitioning by
per-node device assignment. Mesh TensorFlow [23] helps the user to build large models with SPMD-
style per-operator partitioning, by rewriting the computation in a Python library on top of TensorFlow;
in comparison, our approach partitions the graph in the compiler based on light-weight annotations
without requiring the user to rewrite the model. FlexFlow [81] uses automated search to discover
the optimal partition of operators in a graph for better performance; while it focuses on determining
the partitioning policy, our SPMD partitioner focuses on the mechanisms to transform an annotated
graph. Weight-update sharding [82] is another automatic parallelization transformation based on
XLA, which mostly focuses on performance optimizations for TPU clusters, and conceptually can
be viewed as a special case for GShard. Zero [83] presents a set of optimizations to reduce memory
redundancy in parallel training devices, by partitioning weights, activations, and optimizer state
separately, and it is able to scale models to 170 billion parameters; in comparison, GShard is more
general in the sense that it does not distinguish these tensors, and all of those specific partitioning
techniques can be supported by simply annotating the corresponding tensors, allowing us to scale to
over 1 trillion parameters and explore more design choices.
Conditional Computation and Machine Translation Conditional computation [25, 16, 26, 27]
premises that the examples should be routed within the network by activating an input dependent sub-

network. The routing depends (or conditions) on certain criterion and without the loss of generality,
can be any of the following: estimated difficulty of the example [84], available computation budget
[26, 27], or more generally a learned criterion with sparsity induced mixture of experts [16]. We
extend sparsely gated mixture of experts [16] due to its flexibility and ease of scaling to state of the
art neural sequence models, Transformers [10], to satisfy training efficiency.
7 Conclusion
In this paper, we introduced GShard, a deep learning module that partitions computation at scale
automatically. GShard operates with lightweight sharding annotations required in the user model
code only and delivers an easy to use and flexible API for scaling giant neural networks. We applied
GShard to scale up Transformer architecture with Sparsely-Gated Mixture-of-Experts layers (MoE
Transformer) and demonstrated a 600B parameter multilingual neural machine translation model
can efficiently be trained in 4 days achieving superior performance and quality compared to prior art
when translating 100 languages to English with a single model. In addition to the far better translation
quality, MoE Transformer models trained with GShard also excel at training efficiency, with a
training cost of 22 TPU v3 core years compared to 29 TPU years used for training all 100 bilingual
Transformer baseline models. Empirical results presented in this paper confirmed that scaling models
by utilizing conditional computation not only improve the quality of real-world machine learning
applications but also remained practical and sample efficient during training. Our proposed method
presents a favorable scalability/cost trade-off and alleviates the need for model-specific frameworks or
tools for scaling giant neural networks. Together, our results help to elucidate a realistic and practical
way forward for neural network scaling to achieve better model quality.
We have learned several lessons from our study. Our results suggest that progressive scaling of
neural networks yields consistent quality gains, validating that the quality improvements have not
yet plateaued as we scale up our models. While the results in this paper consolidate that model
scaling is a must in deep learning practitioners' toolbox, we also urge practitioners to strive for
training efficiency. To this end, we identified factors that affect the training efficiency and showed
their implications on downstream task quality. We demonstrated how the neural networks built with
conditional computation yield a favorable trade-off between scale and computational cost. In practice
such critical design decisions allowed us to enjoy experimental cycles of not months or weeks, but
only days to train models in the order of magnitude of trillion parameters.
Further, having a proper abstraction layer that separates model description from parallelization
implementation, allows model developer to focus on network implementation, leaving GShard to
partition the computation graphs automatically and generate programs that run on all devices in
parallel. We found that generating a single program that is general enough to express computation
on all underlying parallel devices is the key to compile scalably. The traditional way of generating
multiple dedicated programs for different partitions results in explosive compilation time when
scaling to thousands of partitions. To address this complexity, we introduced various compiler
renovations based on SPMD sharding that allows any tensor dimension to be partitioned. As a
takeaway, we emphasize that model scaling and training efficiency should go hand-in-hand; and
algorithmic improvements such as conditional computation when coupled with easy to use interfaces
can effectively utilize large computational power.
Lastly, our experimental results empirically support that, mere parameter counting does not always
correlate with the effective capacity of the models at scale [85, 86]. Comparison of the models should
also account in the nature of the problem, i.e. massively multi-task setting with a heavy training data
imbalance across tasks as in our case, and control the factors affecting different operation modes of
the networks, i.e. capacity bottleneck vs positive transfer.
Acknowledgements
We would like to thank the Google Brain and Translate teams for their useful input and insightful
discussions, entire XLA and Lingvo development teams for their foundational contributions to this
project. In particular Youlong Cheng, Naveen Arivazhagan, Ankur Bapna, Ruoming Pang, Yonghui
Wu, Yuan Cao, David Majnemer, James Molloy, Peter Hawkins, Blake Hechtman, Mark Heffernan,
Dimitris Vardoulakis, Tamas Berghammer, Marco Cornero, Cong Liu, Tong Shen, Hongjun Choi,
Jianwei Xie, Sneha Kudugunta, and Macduff Hughes.

[References 1-89 and Appendix A.1-A.4 follow in the original paper; see arXiv:2006.16668 for full
reference list and appendices, which cover Decoding with Flat Beam Search (A.1), Machine
Translation Experiments Details (A.2: 1024 Transformer model dimension, 8192 FFN/MoE hidden
dimension, 16 attention heads, 128 attention key/value dimension, 0.1 dropout, Adafactor optimizer,
SentencePiece subword tokenizer with multilingual source-side vocabulary of size 64000 spanning
102 languages and English-only target-side vocabulary of size 32000), General Sharding API (A.3),
and SPMD Partitioning for Convolution and Window-Based Operators (A.4).]

A.2 Machine Translation Experiments Details
In our Machine Translation experiments MoE Transformer models shared a) 1024 Transformer model
dimension b) 8192 Feed Forward and MoE hidden dimension; c) 16 heads in multi-head attention; d)
128 attention key and value dimension; and e) 0.1 input, residual and attention dropout rate.
We used the Adafactor [88] optimizer with a) factored second-moment estimation; b) first moment
decay β1 = 0.0; c) second moment decay β2 = 0.99 with 1 − t^−0.8 schedule; d) update clipping
threshold of 1.0; and e) 1.0 learning rate with square root decay after 10k training steps.
We used SentencePiece [89] subword tokenizer with a single multilingual vocabulary for source-side
spanning 102 languages of size 64000, and English-only target-side vocabulary of size 32000.
