<!-- arXiv full text captured via alphaXiv get_paper_content (fullText). id: 2210.10760 -->

Scaling Laws for Reward Model Overoptimization
Leo Gao
OpenAI
John Schulman
OpenAI
Jacob Hilton
OpenAI
Abstract
In reinforcement learning from human feedback, it is common to optimize against
a reward model trained to predict human preferences. Because the reward model
is an imperfect proxy, optimizing its value too much can hinder ground truth
performance, in accordance with Goodhart’s law. This effect has been frequently
observed, but not carefully measured due to the expense of collecting human
preference data. In this work, we use a synthetic setup in which a fixed “gold-
standard” reward model plays the role of humans, providing labels used to train a
proxy reward model. We study how the gold reward model score changes as we
optimize against the proxy reward model using either reinforcement learning or
best-of-n sampling. We find that this relationship follows a different functional
form depending on the method of optimization, and that in both cases its coefficients
scale smoothly with the number of reward model parameters. We also study the
effect on this relationship of the size of the reward model dataset, the number of
reward model and policy parameters, and the coefficient of the KL penalty added
to the reward in the reinforcement learning setup. We explore the implications of
these empirical results for theoretical considerations in AI alignment.
1 Introduction
Goodhart’s law is an adage that states, “When a measure becomes a target, it ceases to be a good
measure.” In machine learning, this effect arises with proxy objectives provided by static learned
models, such as discriminators and reward models. Optimizing too much against such a model
eventually hinders the true objective, a phenomenon we refer to as overoptimization. It is important to
understand the size of this effect and how it scales, in order to predict how much a learned model can
be safely optimized against. Moreover, studying this effect empirically could aid in the development
of theoretical models of Goodhart’s law for neural networks, which could be critical for avoiding
dangerous misalignment of future AI systems.
In this work, we study overoptimization in the context of large language models fine-tuned as
reward models trained to predict which of two options a human will prefer. Such reward models
have been used to train language models to perform a variety of complex tasks that are hard to
judge automatically, including summarization [Stiennon et al., 2020], question-answering [Nakano
et al., 2021, Menick et al., 2022], and general assistance [Ouyang et al., 2022, Bai et al., 2022,
Glaese et al., 2022]. Typically, the reward model score is optimized using either policy gradient-
based reinforcement learning or best-of-n sampling, also known as rejection sampling or reranking.
Overoptimization can occur with both methods, and we study both to better understand whether and
how overoptimization behaves differently across both methods.
A major challenge in studying overoptimization in this context is the expense of collecting human
preference labels. A large number of labels are required to accurately estimate overall preference
probabilities, and this is exacerbated by small effect sizes and the need to take many measurements in
order to fit scaling laws. To overcome this, we use a synthetic setup that is described in Section 2, in
which labels are supplied by a “gold-standard” reward model (RM) instead of humans.
Preprint. Under review.
arXiv:2210.10760v1 [cs.LG] 19 Oct 2022

Our main results are empirically validated functional forms for the gold reward model scores R
as a function of the Kullback–Leibler divergence from the initial policy to the optimized policy
KL := D
KL 
(π ‖ π
init
), which depends on the method of optimization used. This KL distance
between the initial and optimized policies increases monotonically during during RL training (fig. 14),
and can be computed analytically as a function of n for BoN. Further, because it is a quadratic
metric of distance [Bai et al., 2022, Section 4.3], we will define d := 
√
D
KL 
(π ‖ π
init
), and write
our functional forms in terms of d.
We find empirically that for best-of-n (BoN) sampling,
R
bon 
(d) = d (α
bon 
− β
bon
d) ,
and for reinforcement learning,
1
R
RL 
(d) = d (α
RL 
− β
RL 
log d) ,
Here, R(0) := 0 by definition and α
RL
, β
RL
, α
bon 
and β
bon 
are parameters that may depend on the
number of proxy reward model parameters, the size of the proxy reward model dataset, and so on.
We see that these scaling laws make accurate predictions.
We also find the following.
• RL versus best-of-n. 
As a function of the KL divergence, reinforcement learning tends to
be slower than best-of-n sampling at both optimization and overoptimization. This suggests
inadequacies with using KL to compare amount of (over)optimization across methods.
However, the relationship between the proxy reward model score and the gold reward model
score is similar for both methods.
• Smooth coefficient scaling. 
The α and β coefficients in the BoN and RL functional forms
vary smoothly with the number of proxy reward model parameters, following approximate
logarithmic trends.
2 
This allows prediction of attained gold RM score.
• Weak dependence on policy size. While larger policies perform better overall and benefit
less from optimization against an RM as measured by increase in gold reward, they lead to
very similar amounts of overoptimization, as measured through the gap between the proxy
and gold scores (which indicates the shortfall between predicted and actual reward), and KL
distance at which the maximum gold RM score is attained.
• KL penalty ineffectiveness. In our reinforcement learning setup, using a KL penalty
increases the proxy reward model score that can be achieved for a given KL divergence, but
this does not correspond to a measurable improvement in the gold RM score–KL
RL 
frontier.
However, we note this result could be particularly sensitive to hyperparameters.
Finally, we discuss the implications of these findings for Reinforcement Learning From Human
Feedback (RLHF), existing models of Goodhart’s law, and AI Alignment more broadly.
2 Methodology
The setting used throughout this paper is the same as for InstructGPT [Ouyang et al., 2022]. In
our environment, the observations are text prompts and the policy is used to generate a response to
the prompt. The prompts are drawn from a broad range of natural language instructions describing
different language model tasks. Then, a learned RM is used to provide the reward signal for the
response, which is used by either RL or BoN for optimization.
For all experiments, we use pretrained GPT-3 series language models as the initial checkpoint [Brown
et al., 2020]. All initial policies are trained with supervised fine-tuning (SFT) on human-generated
InstructGPT demonstrations [Ouyang et al., 2022] for 2 epochs. All RMs also use the GPT-3
architecture but have an added scalar head to output the reward.
1
We note that this form likely does not hold near the origin, as it has infinite slope there. We experimented
with a number of different forms, but found worse fits and extrapolation. See appendix B for more details.
2
The coefficient α
RL 
in particular being nearly independent of RM parameter count.
2

(a) BoN
(b) RL
Figure 1: Reward model (RM) parameter size scaling experiments using the InstructGPT environment.
Policy size is held constant (1.2B), while reward model size is varied. The x-axes have a square-root
scale. Note that the plots have different x-axes. The gold reward represents the ground truth reward;
we observe that when we optimize for a learned proxy of the gold reward, the gold reward initially
increases and later decreases. We show that our functional forms fit this effect well.
3

Figure 2: Diagram of the real and synthetic RM training setups. Human labellers generate comparison
data. In the real RLHF setting, this data is used to train a proxy RM that is optimized by RL/BoN. In
our synthetic setting, we instead use a “Gold RM” as our ground truth. In both settings, the proxy
RM is a proxy for the ground truth process generating the labels (either the human or gold RM).
The RL experiments use Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) [Schulman et al., 2017]. KL penalty for
all RL experiments is set to 0 except for in section 3.6. See appendix C for all other hyperparameters.
We mostly use defaults for the PPO hyperparameters; thus, it is possible that there exist different
trends for other hyperparameter configurations.
In BoN, we generate n trajectories for the policy and use the reward model to pick the one with the
highest proxy RM score. We use the unbiased estimator from Nakano et al. [2021, Appendix I] to
compute all of the gold and proxy scores for intermediate n between 1 and the maximum n with
lower variance and more efficiently than the naive estimator of randomly sampling n samples with
replacement repeatedly and taking the mean of the maximum gold and proxy RM scores. The KL
distances for BoN are computed analytically: KL
bon 
= log n − 
n−1
n 
[Stiennon et al., 2020, Appendix
G.3].
2.1 Synthetic Data Setup
Because getting a ground truth gold reward signal from human labellers is expensive, we instead
use a synthetic task where the ground truth is defined to be the output of a particular large “gold”
RM. The 6B reward model from Ouyang et al. [2022] is used as the gold RM, and our proxy RMs
vary from 3M to 3B parameters
3
. This synthetic gold reward is used to label pairs of rollouts from
the policy given the same prompt to create synthetic RM training data. The synthetic comparisons
are created deterministically by always marking the trajectory with the higher gold RM score as
preferred.
4 
We generate 100,000 synthetic comparisons and reserve 10% of these as a held out test
set for computing the validation loss of RMs.
See fig. 2 for a diagram of the synthetic setup.
2.2 Recalibration
The RM scores are translation-invariant, so to ensure comparability across different reward models,
we recenter each RM such that the average reward of the initial policy is 0. We also unit normalize
the variance of the gold RM scores.
5 
Because our hard thresholding synthetic data setup produces
labels that are miscalibrated (since they do not incorporate the gold RM’s confidence), we recalibrate
the proxy RMs by rescaling the logits to minimize cross-entropy loss using a validation set of soft
labels. All renormalization and recalibration is applied after the experiments; this does not affect
BoN at all, and likely has no impact on RL because Adam is loss scale invariant, though it is possible
that there are slight differences due to algorithmic details.
3
We originally trained two additional RMs smaller than 3M parameters, which achieved near-chance accuracy
and were off-trend, and so were excluded.
4
We had experimented with sampling for creating labels, but observed noisier results.
5
We later decided this was unnecessary but decided not to change it.
4

3 Results
3.1 Fitting and validating functional forms
We chose our functional forms through experimentation with all RM data and parameter scaling
curves in the remainder of this paper.
The BoN functional form was hypothesized using data up to n = 1000. In order to validate the
functional forms, we performed a BoN experiment with up to n = 60, 000 (KL ≈ 10 nats), after
only having seen data up to n = 1, 000 (KL ≈ 6 nats). As this experiment was conducted after the
functional form was hypothesized based on data up to 6 nats, this was a true advance prediction.
We also test extrapolation of the BoN and RL functional forms from low KLs to to unseen larger
KLs; see fig. 26 for details.
We also attempted to model the proxy scores but were unable to obtain a satisfactory fit. For BoN,
despite visual similarity, a linear fit (dα
bon
) did not work well (fig. 20). The predictions for RL and
BoN are not as easily modelled as the gold score predictions. We leave a better understanding of the
proxy RM score behavior to future work.
3.2 Scaling with RM Parameter Count
We hold policy size (1.2B) and data size (90,000) constant (fig. 1). We observe that for the gold RM
scores, α
bon 
and β
bon 
change smoothly with RM size (figs. 3a and 3b). For RL, we find that we can
hold α
RL 
constant across all RM sizes, resulting in a clean scaling curve for β
RL 
(fig. 3c). These
scaling laws allow us to predict properties of training runs; for instance, we can also predict the peak
gold RM scores for different RM sizes (fig. 12).
When modelled using the same functional forms as the respective gold scores, the proxy score fits
have much lower values of β
bon
. We also see smooth scaling in the proxy score’s α
bon 
and β
bon
.
However, for the reasons in section 3.1, we are less confident about these fits. For both BoN and RL,
we observe systematic underestimates of the proxy reward model when extrapolated to higher KLs.
Both appear to eventually grow roughly linearly in 
√
KL, as in Bai et al. [2022].
(a) α
bon 
(b) β
bon 
(c) β
RL
Figure 3: The values of α
bon
, β
bon 
and β
RL 
in the BoN and RL overoptimization scaling laws for
both proxy (dashed line) and gold (solid line) rewards as they scale with parameter count.
3.3 Scaling with RM Data Size
We hold RM size constant (12M) and sweep RM data size for both RL and BoN.
6
. Overall, the results
are consistent with intuition: more data leads to better gold scores and less goodharting. The scaling
of α and β with data size are not as cleanly described as for RM size scaling (fig. 17, fig. 18).
For all RM sizes, we observe that for amounts of data less than around 2,000 comparisons
7
, there is
very little improvement over near-chance loss (Figure 6). This is also reflected in gold scores after
optimization (fig. 21). After this threshold, all models improve with more data, though larger RMs
6
For BoN, we actually sweep all combinations of RM size and data size; see fig. 10. For a version of fig. 4a
against a 3B RM, see fig. 19.
7
To test the hypothesis that some minimum number of RM finetuning steps is needed, we control for the
number of SGD steps by running multiple epochs and observe that running 4 epochs instead of 1 yields no
change in gold score whatsoever, whereas 1 epoch of 4 times as much data performs substantially better (fig. 13).
5

(a) BoN (b) RL
Figure 4: RM data scaling experiments. RM size is held constant (12M), while RM data is varied.
The x-axis has a square root scale. Note that the plots have different axes. Dotted lines indicate proxy
rewards, solid lines indicate gold rewards.
generally improve faster. Interestingly, although larger RMs result in better gold scores overall, they
do not appear to have this critical threshold substantially earlier than smaller models.
8
We hypothesized that two RMs of equal validation loss would achieve the same robustness against
optimization, regardless of the combination of RM size and RM data size. Our results provide some
weak evidence for this hypothesis (fig. 5).
Figure 5: RM validation loss vs BoN RM score
@ n=1000. Most points in this figure are already
averaged over multiple seeds.
Figure 6: RM losses, broken down by data size
and RM size
3.4 Scaling with Policy Size
We briefly explore the impact of policy size by holding the RM size constant (12M) and evaluating
two different policy sizes. We also perform the same experiment with a different RM size (3B),
observing similar results (fig. 22).
Larger policies see less benefit from optimization against an RM, but don’t overoptimize more.
We observe that the 6B policy run has a smaller difference between its initial and peak gold reward
model scores than the 1.2B policy run. This is most visible in the BoN plot (fig. 7a).
9 
However, while
we might expect that a larger policy overoptimizes substantially faster, contrary to intuition, we find
that both gold scores peak at almost the same KL. In fact, the gap between the proxy and gold scores
is almost the same between the two policy sizes (fig. 24). We can interpret this gap, the shortfall
8
This result contradicts some other internal findings; thus, it is possible that this is an artifact of this particular
setup.
9
For a version of the RL plot (fig. 7b) with all runs starting at 0, see fig. 23.
6

(a) BoN (b) RL
Figure 7: Policy scaling experiments. RM size is held constant (12M), while policy size is varied.
The x-axis has a square root scale. Note that the plots have different axes. Dotted lines indicate proxy
rewards, solid lines indicate gold rewards. The asterisks in the RL plot indicate the max gold score
for each policy size.
between the predicted and actual rewards, as being indicative of the extent to which the proxy RM is
exploited. We discuss this result further in section 4.4.
3.5 RL vs BoN
A priori, we might expect reinforcement learning via PPO [Schulman et al., 2017] and best-of-n to
apply optimization in very different ways. As such, we ask whether this difference in optimization
results in different overoptimization characteristics. Similarities would potentially indicate candidates
for further study in gaining a more fundamental understanding of overoptimization in general, and
differences opportunities for better optimization algorithms. We note the following:
RL is far less KL-efficient than BoN. Viewing KL distance as a resource to be spent, we observe
that RL "consumes" far more KL than BoN. This means that both optimization and overoptimization
require more KL to occur with RL. Intuitively, BoN searches very locally around the initial policy,
and thus KL
bon 
increases with roughly log(n). For RL on the other hand, each step modifies the
policy from the policy of the previous step—KL increases approximately quadratically with step in
the absence of KL penalty (Figure 16, Figure 14). An implication of this result is that KL distance is
an inadequate metric for quantity of (over)optimization; we discuss this further in section 4.1.
When looking at proxy vs gold RM scores, BoN and RL look more similar. The proxy RM
score is another possible metric for quantity of optimization, because it is the value that is being
directly optimized for. Using it as the metric of optimization leads to significantly more analogy
between RL and BoN than KL distance does. However, we do observe that RL initially has a larger
proxy-gold gap (i.e requires more proxy RM increase to match BoN), but then peaks at a higher gold
RM score than BoN (fig. 8).
3.6 Effect of KL Penalty
We observe in our setting that when varying the KL penalty for RL, the gold RM scores depend only
on the KL distance of the policy KL
RL 
(Figure 9). The KL penalty only causes the gold RM score to
converge earlier, but does not affect the KL
RL
-gold reward frontier, and so the effect of the penalty on
the gold score is akin to early stopping (Figure 14). However, we have seen some evidence that this
result could be particularly sensitive to hyperparameters.
Because we observe that using KL penalty has a strictly larger proxy-gold gap, we set KL penalty to
0 for all other RL experiments in this paper.
It is important to note that PPO’s surrogate objective incorporates an implicit penalty on
D
KL 
(π
old 
‖ π), where π
old 
is a recent policy (not the initial policy) [Schulman et al., 2017]. This
penalty is used to control how fast the policy changes, but also has an indirect effect on the KL we
7

Figure 8: Proxy vs gold RM score for both BoN and RL. RL curves are truncated to a proxy RM
score of 1.6 for readability.
study here, D
KL 
(π ‖ π
init
), causing it to grow much more slowly (providing the implementation is
well-tuned). We do not know why this indirect effect appears to lead to less overoptimization than an
explicit KL penalty.
Figure 9: RL experiments with various KL penalties. Policy size (1.2B) and RM size (1.2B) are
held constant. Dotted lines indicate proxy rewards, solid lines indicate gold rewards. We observe the
effect of the KL penalty on the gold score as being equivalent to early stopping.
4 Discussion
4.1 KL as a measure of amount of optimization
For any given fixed optimization method, KL yields clean scaling trends, such as the ones observed
in section 3.2, and consistent peak gold RM score KLs as in section 3.4. However, because it’s
8

clear that different methods of optimization spend KL very differently (section 3.5), it should not
be used to compare the amount of optimization between different optimization algorithms. There
exist pertubations to a policy that are orthogonal to the reward signal that would result in increases in
KL that do not increase either gold or proxy reward; conversely, extremely small but well targeted
perturbations could substantially change the behavior of the policy within a small KL budget.
4.2 Relation to Goodhart Taxonomy
One useful taxonomy for various Goodhart effects is presented in Manheim and Garrabrant [2018],
categorizing Goodhart’s Law into 4 categories: Regressional, Extremal, Causal, and Adversarial. In
this section, we discuss our results in the framework of this taxonomy.
4.2.1 Regressional Goodhart
Regressional Goodhart occurs when our proxy RMs depend on features with noise. The simplest
toy example of this is a proxy reward 
ˆ
X which is exactly equal to the gold reward X plus some
independent noise Z. When optimizing against this proxy, some amount of optimization power will
go to selecting for noise, leading to a gold reward less than predicted by the proxy.
More formally, for independent absolutely continuous random variables X and Z with X normally
distributed and either (a) Z normally distributed or (b) |Z − E [Z]| < δ for some δ > 0, this model
predicts a gold reward that is:
E[X | 
ˆ
X = ˆx] = E[X] + (ˆx − E[X] − E[Z]) 
Var(X)
Var(X) + Var(Z) 
+ ε (1)
where ε = 0 in case (a) and ε = o (Var (Z)) as δ → 0 in case (b). See appendix A for the proof.
Intuitively, we can interpret eq. (1) as stating that the optimization power expended is divided between
optimizing the gold reward and selecting on the noise proportional to their variances. This also
implies that if this is the only kind of Goodhart present, the gold reward must always increase
monotonically with the proxy reward; as we observe nonmonotonic behavior (fig. 8), there must be
either noise distributions violating these assumptions or other kinds of Goodhart at play.
This result lends itself to an interpretation of the α term in the RL and BoN gold score scaling laws:
since for both RL and BoN the proxy scores are roughly linear in 
√
KL, the difference in the slope of
the proxy score and the linear component of the gold score (i.e the α term) can be interpreted as the
amount of regressional Goodhart occurring.
4.2.2 Extremal Goodhart
We can think of out of distribution failures of the RM as an instance of extremal Goodhart. As we
optimize against the proxy RM, the distribution of our samples shifts out of the training distribution
of the RM, and thus the relation between the proxy and gold scores weakens. For instance, suppose
in the training distribution a feature like answer length always indicates a higher quality answer, and
thus the proxy RM infers that longer answers are always better, even though at some point outside
the training distribution, selecting on longer answers no longer improves quality.
10
We can also think of this as the proxy failing to depend on relevant features; this failure bears
resemblance to the setting considered in Zhuang and Hadfield-Menell [2020], where a failure of the
proxy to consider all features, under certain conditions, leads to overoptimization with unbounded
loss of utility regardless of optimization method.
We expect extremal Goodharting to be primarily responsible for the nonmonotonicity of the gold
RM scores in this paper, and is mostly responsible for the β term, which in the limit of optimization,
results in an unbounded loss of utility. This lends a natural interpretation to the smooth decrease in β
for both BoN and RL with increased RM size as smooth improvements in model robustness (fig. 3).
10
Optimized policies producing very long answers even when a short answer would be preferred is a real issue
that we have observed in other experiments in the InstructGPT setting.
9

4.2.3 Causal Goodhart
We can think of causal Goodhart as being a generalization of regressional Goodhart: there may exist
correlations between features and gold score where the causal structure of the problem is such that
selecting on the feature does not increase the gold score. For instance, suppose answer length is
correlated with quality due to some other common cause (say, informativeness); then, the proxy
RM may learn to use answer length as a feature, and when we select against the proxy we get
longer answers that do not increase on actual quality.
11 
In our experiments, we would observe causal
Goodhart as behaving similarly to regressional Goodhart.
4.2.4 Adversarial Goodhart
Adversarial Goodhart occurs when the policy actively manipulates the proxy. We do not expect
the effects of adversarial Goodhart to be captured in this work, as the models involved are not
powerful enough to implement adversarial strategies. However, given the constant improvement of
ML capabilities, it is entirely plausible that ML systems will one day become capable enough to do
so [Hubinger et al., 2019]. When this occurs, the scaling laws observed in this paper may break down.
Thus, we advise caution when using these results for extrapolation.
4.3 Implications for iterated RLHF
When conducting reinforcement learning from human feedback, it is preferable to use an online setup,
in which fresh human feedback data is periodically used to train a new reward model, to mitigate
overoptimization [Bai et al., 2022]. Our scaling law allows us to analyze the effect of this iterative
approach under some simplifying assumptions. We assume firstly that the scaling coefficients α
RL
and β
RL 
remain constant across iterations, and secondly that the distance d = 
√
KL is additive across
iterations (because of how KL appears to grow empirically as in Figure 14). Under these assumptions,
the final gold reward model score after k iterations each covering a distance d/k is given by
R
RL 
(d) = d (α
RL 
− β
RL 
log (d) + β
RL 
log (k)) .
Two interesting observations follow from this. Firstly, the iterative approach does not affect any
Goodharting captured by the α
RL 
term (such as regressional Goodharting, as discussed in Section
4.2.1). Secondly, the effect of the iterative approach is to increase the final gold RM score by an
amount proportional to both d and log (k), namely
β
RL
d log (k) .
Note that this result can only hold up to some maximum value of k, and we expect our scaling law
to break down below some minimum distance. Further research is required to determine what this
minimum is, as well as to what extent our simplifying assumptions hold in practice.
4.4 Policy size independence
Our observation that larger SFT policies seem to exhibit the same amount of overoptimization during
RL implies that larger policies do not increase the amount of optimization power applied to the RM
or learn faster, even though they start out with higher performance on the gold score. While it is
expected that larger policies have less to gain from optimizing against the same RM, we might also
expect the gold score to peak at a substantially earlier KL distance, analogous to what we see when
we scale the RM size (section 3.2), or for larger policies to more efficiently utilize the same number
of RL feedback steps (section 3.3)
12
.
One possible hypothesis is that, because RLHF can be viewed as Bayesian inference from the prior
of the initial policy [Korbak et al., 2022]
13
, increases in policy size are only improving the modelling
accuracy of the human demonstration distribution.
11
We can think of noise as a particular case of this where the independent noise is correlated with signal+noise,
but of course there is no causal relation between signal and noise.
12
It is also not the case that the 6B policy run has higher KL distance for the same number of RL steps; in fact,
we observe that it has lower KL distance for the same number of steps (fig. 15)
13
The result of Korbak et al. [2022] concerns varying KL penalties rather than KL distances with no KL
penalty, but as we observe in section 3.6, this is equivalent on our setting.
10

4.5 Limitations and Future Work
In addition to the overoptimization studied in this paper (due to the mismatch between the reward
model and the ground truth labels), there exists another source of overoptimization due to mismatch
between the ground truth labels and the actual human intent. This contains issues ranging from the
mundane, such as labellers choosing options that only appear to match their intent
14
, to substantially
more philosophically fraught issues [Armstrong and Mindermann, 2018, Sunstein et al., 2001]. The
main limitation of this work is that this additional source of overoptimization is not captured in the
setting of this paper. See section 5 for discussion of related work in alignment.
Some additional limitations and future directions include:
• Validating these results on other environments and experimental setups. 
While the
experiments in this paper all use the InstructGPT environment, the main value of these
results lies in the extent to which they reflect general phenomema. Confirming whether
these results generalize to other settings would be extremely valuable to that end.
15
• Validating the synthetic setting. 
The synthetic setting might not transfer to real world
settings, for instance because there is substantial correlation between RMs.
• Investigating methods for making RMs more robust to optimization. While there has
been prior work in this direction (see section 5), there is still much work to be done in
systematically investigating ways to make RMs more robust.
• Exploring other forms of optimization and categorizing their differences. While this
work focuses exclusively on BoN and RL there are other ways of applying optimization
pressure against a model of a reward signal, either implicit or explicit. This includes GeDi-
like steering, Decision Transformers
16
, variants of BoN like beam search, and other RL
algorithms.
• Better understanding the functional form of proxy RM scores. 
In our modeling, we find
that the proxy RM scores are more difficult to predict for both BoN and RL (section 3.2).
While they seem to have a major linear component, there is sufficient variation that fitting a
linear regression is not very good at predicting extrapolated proxy RM scores.
• Exploring adversarial Goodhart empirically. In this work we deal with systems not
powerful enough to cause adversarial Goodhart. However, it is plausible that adversarial
Goodhart is especially important, or is associated with phase changes that break the trends
seen in this paper.
• Exploring scaling with policy size in more detail. Our exploration of policy size scaling
in this paper was limited to only two policy sizes. It is possible that there exist trends not
seen in our exploration when considering the policy size more carefully.
• Exploring multi-iteration RLHF. In particular, checking for deviations from the assump-
tions of section 4.3.
We hope this paper leads to future work further bridging conceptual and empirical alignment research.
5 Related Work
Goodhart’s Law in its modern formulation was first introduced in Hoskin [1996], with many of
the key ideas introduced in prior works [Campbell, 1969, Goodhart, 1975]. Many approaches
have been proposed for reducing overoptimization in general [Taylor, 2016, Everitt et al., 2017],
as well as in RMs [Gleave and Irving, 2022], including within the field of adversarial robustness
[Chakraborty et al., 2018]. Overoptimization of reward models can be viewed as a special case of
14
For instance, the example of a robotic hand learning from human feedback to only appear to grasp a ball, pre-
sented in https://openai.com/blog/deep-reinforcement-learning-from-human-preferences/
[Christiano et al., 2017]
15
In the course of our experiments, we observed visually similar results on the WebGPT environment [Nakano
et al., 2021].
16
One could consider measuring the actual achieved ground truth/gold score achieved for each "proxy" score
conditioned on, a la fig. 8, as testing the implicit reward-behavior mapping encoded by the model.
11

specification gaming (also known as reward hacking). Previous work has shown numerous exam-
ples of such behavior in a wide variety of settings [Krakovna et al., 2020, Lehman et al., 2020].
Pan et al. [2022] explores a diverse set of RL environments and finds phase transitions in some
settings. A number of works have proposed theoretical models of Goodhart’s Law and reward
hacking [Krakovna and Kumar, 2019, Manheim and Garrabrant, 2018, Skalse et al., 2022], includ-
ing Zhuang and Hadfield-Menell [2020] which exhibits very similar overoptimization curves as
observed in this paper in some toy environments.
One can think of overfitting as a special case of Goodhart’s law where the proxy is the score on
some finite set of samples, whereas our actual objective includes its generalization properties as well.
Overfitting has been observed and studied in RL settings [Zhang et al., 2018a,b, Farebrother et al.,
2018, Cobbe et al., 2019]. Song et al. [2019] studies "observational overfitting" in RL settings, which
is closely related to causal Goodhart [Manheim and Garrabrant, 2018].
Adversarial attacks and robustness are also very closely related fields. Many works have demonstrated
the existence of adversarial examples in all kinds of neural networks [Szegedy et al., 2013, Lin et al.,
2017, Ebrahimi et al., 2018, Dai et al., 2018], and proposed methods to measure and increase neural
network robustness [Gu and Rigazio, 2014, Zheng et al., 2016, Carlini et al., 2019, Guo et al., 2021].
Scaling laws have seen substantial success in machine learning for predicting properties of language
models [Kaplan et al., 2020, Henighan et al., 2020, Hernandez et al., 2021] and has led to better
theoretical understanding of language models [Sharma and Kaplan, 2020, Bahri et al., 2021].
Reinforcement learning from human feedback [Christiano et al., 2017, Ibarz et al., 2018] has been
used broadly in language models [Stiennon et al., 2020, Ouyang et al., 2022, Nakano et al., 2021,
Bai et al., 2022]. It is also a first step towards recursive reward modelling [Leike et al., 2018],
an approach towards reducing the additional source of overoptimization described in section 4.5,
though it is subject to some theoretical limitations [Christiano et al., 2021]. We observe similar
approximately-linear proxy RM scores observed in Bai et al. [2022]
17
, though we observe an early-KL
bend in the proxy RM scores, and there are some occasional outliers with very small RMs and data
sizes.
More broadly, AI alignment is the problem of ensuring that the goals of AI systems are aligned with
the goals of humans [Ngo, 2022], including future AI systems which may exceed humans [Bostrom,
2014]. There are a number of reasons to expect AI misalignment, especially in those more powerful
future systems, to occur [Omohundro, 2008, Turner et al., 2021, Armstrong et al., 2013, Hubinger
et al., 2019, Soares et al., 2015], and to result in catastrophic outcomes [Carlsmith, 2022, Cotra,
2022].
Acknowlegements
We thank Vivek Hebbar, Jared Kaplan, Jan Leike, Kyle McDonell, Dan Mossing, Ethan Perez, Laria
Reynolds, and Jeff Wu for valuable discussion and feedback.
References
Stuart Armstrong and Sören Mindermann. Occam's razor is insufficient to infer the preferences
of irrational agents. In S. Bengio, H. Wallach, H. Larochelle, K. Grauman, N. Cesa-Bianchi,
and R. Garnett, editors, Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 31. Cur-
ran Associates, Inc., 2018. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2018/file/
d89a66c7c80a29b1bdbab0f2a1a94af8-Paper.pdf.
Stuart Armstrong et al. General purpose intelligence: arguing the orthogonality thesis. Analysis and
Metaphysics, 12(68):1–20, 2013.
Yasaman Bahri, Ethan Dyer, Jared Kaplan, Jaehoon Lee, and Utkarsh Sharma. Explaining neural
scaling laws. arXiv preprint arXiv:2102.06701, 2021.
Yuntao Bai, Andy Jones, Kamal Ndousse, Amanda Askell, Anna Chen, Nova DasSarma, Dawn Drain,
Stanislav Fort, Deep Ganguli, Tom Henighan, et al. Training a helpful and harmless assistant with
reinforcement learning from human feedback. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.05862, 2022.
17
Note that Bai et al. [2022] scaled the policy size with the RM size, while we hold the policy size constant.
12

Nick Bostrom. Superintelligence: Paths, Dangers, Strategies. Oxford University Press, Inc., USA,
1st edition, 2014. ISBN 0199678111.
Tom B. Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared Kaplan, Prafulla Dhari-
wal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Sandhini Agarwal,
Ariel Herbert-Voss, Gretchen Krueger, Tom Henighan, Rewon Child, Aditya Ramesh, Daniel M.
Ziegler, Jeffrey Wu, Clemens Winter, Christopher Hesse, Mark Chen, Eric Sigler, Mateusz Litwin,
Scott Gray, Benjamin Chess, Jack Clark, Christopher Berner, Sam McCandlish, Alec Radford,
Ilya Sutskever, and Dario Amodei. Language models are few-shot learners. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2005.14165, 2020.
Donald T Campbell. Reforms as experiments. American psychologist, 24(4):409, 1969.
Nicholas Carlini, Anish Athalye, Nicolas Papernot, Wieland Brendel, Jonas Rauber, Dimitris Tsipras,
Ian Goodfellow, Aleksander Madry, and Alexey Kurakin. On evaluating adversarial robustness,
2019. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1902.06705.
Joseph Carlsmith. Is power-seeking AI an existential risk? arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.13353, 2022.
Anirban Chakraborty, Manaar Alam, Vishal Dey, Anupam Chattopadhyay, and Debdeep Mukhopad-
hyay. Adversarial attacks and defences: A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.00069, 2018.
Paul Christiano, Ajeya Cotra, and Mark Xu. Eliciting latent knowledge: How to tell if your
eyes deceive you, 12 2021. URL https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WwsnJQstPq91_
Yh-Ch2XRL8H_EpsnjrC1dwZXR37PC8.
Paul F Christiano, Jan Leike, Tom Brown, Miljan Martic, Shane Legg, and Dario Amodei. Deep
reinforcement learning from human preferences. Advances in neural information processing
systems, 30, 2017.
Karl Cobbe, Oleg Klimov, Chris Hesse, Taehoon Kim, and John Schulman. Quantifying generalization
in reinforcement learning. In Kamalika Chaudhuri and Ruslan Salakhutdinov, editors, Proceedings
of the 36th International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 97 of Proceedings of Machine
Learning Research, pages 1282–1289. PMLR, 09–15 Jun 2019. URL https://proceedings.
mlr.press/v97/cobbe19a.html.
Ajeya Cotra. Without specific countermeasures, the easiest path to transformative AI likely leads to
AI takeover, 2022. URL https://www.alignmentforum.org/posts/pRkFkzwKZ2zfa3R6H/
without-specific-countermeasures-the-easiest-path-to.
Hanjun Dai, Hui Li, Tian Tian, Xin Huang, Lin Wang, Jun Zhu, and Le Song. Adversarial attack
on graph structured data. In Jennifer Dy and Andreas Krause, editors, Proceedings of the 35th
International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 80 of Proceedings of Machine Learning
Research, pages 1115–1124. PMLR, 10–15 Jul 2018. URL https://proceedings.mlr.press/
v80/dai18b.html.
Javid Ebrahimi, Daniel Lowd, and Dejing Dou. On adversarial examples for character-level neural
machine translation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1806.09030, 2018.
Tom Everitt, Victoria Krakovna, Laurent Orseau, Marcus Hutter, and Shane Legg. Reinforcement
learning with a corrupted reward channel. arXiv preprint arXiv:1705.08417, 2017.
Jesse Farebrother, Marlos C Machado, and Michael Bowling. Generalization and regularization in
dqn. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.00123, 2018.
Amelia Glaese, Nat McAleese, Maja Trebacz, John Aslanides, Vlad Firoiu, Timo Ewalds, Maribeth
Rauh, Laura Weidinger, Martin Chadwick, Phoebe Thacker, Lucy Campbell-Gillingham, Jonathan
Uesato, Po-Sen Huang, Ramona Comanescu, Fan Yang, Abigail See, Sumanth Dathathri, Rory
Greig, Charlie Chen, Doug Fritz, Jaume Sanchez Elias, Richard Green, Soˇna Mokrá, Nicholas Fer-
nando, Boxi Wu, Rachel Foley, Susannah Young, Iason Gabriel, William Isaac, John Mellor, Demis
Hassabis, Koray Kavukcuoglu, Lisa Anne Hendricks, and Geoffrey Irving. Improving alignment
of dialogue agents via targeted human judgements. 2022. URL https://storage.googleapis.
com/deepmind-media/DeepMind.com/Authors-Notes/sparrow/sparrow-final.pdf.
13

Adam Gleave and Geoffrey Irving. Uncertainty estimation for language reward models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2203.07472, 2022.
Charles Goodhart. Problems of monetary management: the uk experience in papers in monetary
economics. Monetary Economics, 1, 1975.
Shixiang Gu and Luca Rigazio. Towards deep neural network architectures robust to adversarial
examples. arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.5068, 2014.
Chuan Guo, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Hervé Jégou, and Douwe Kiela. Gradient-based adversarial
attacks against text transformers, 2021. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.13733.
Tom Henighan, Jared Kaplan, Mor Katz, Mark Chen, Christopher Hesse, Jacob Jackson, Heewoo
Jun, Tom B Brown, Prafulla Dhariwal, Scott Gray, et al. Scaling laws for autoregressive generative
modeling. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.14701, 2020.
Danny Hernandez, Jared Kaplan, Tom Henighan, and Sam McCandlish. Scaling laws for transfer.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2102.01293, 2021.
Keith Hoskin. The "awful idea of accountability" : inscribing people into the measurement of objects.
Accountability : power, ethos and the technologies of managing / edited by Rolland Munro and Jan
Mouritsen, 1996.
Evan Hubinger, Chris van Merwijk, Vladimir Mikulik, Joar Skalse, and Scott Garrabrant. Risks from
learned optimization in advanced machine learning systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:1906.01820,
2019.
Borja Ibarz, Jan Leike, Tobias Pohlen, Geoffrey Irving, Shane Legg, and Dario Amodei. Reward
learning from human preferences and demonstrations in atari. Advances in neural information
processing systems, 31, 2018.
Jared Kaplan, Sam McCandlish, Tom Henighan, Tom B Brown, Benjamin Chess, Rewon Child, Scott
Gray, Alec Radford, Jeffrey Wu, and Dario Amodei. Scaling laws for neural language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2001.08361, 2020.
Tomasz Korbak, Ethan Perez, and Christopher L Buckley. Rl with kl penalties is better viewed as
bayesian inference. arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.11275, 2022.
Victoria Krakovna and Ramana Kumar. Classifying specification problems as variants
of goodhart’s law, 8 2019. URL https://vkrakovna.wordpress.com/2019/08/19/
classifying-specification-problems-as-variants-of-goodharts-law/.
Victoria Krakovna, Jonathan Uesato, Vladimir Mikulik, Matthew Rahtz, Tom Everitt,
Ramana Kumar, Zac Kenton, Jan Leike, and Shane Legg. Specification gaming:
the flip side of AI ingenuity, 4 2020. URL https://www.deepmind.com/blog/
specification-gaming-the-flip-side-of-ai-ingenuity.
Joel Lehman, Jeff Clune, Dusan Misevic, Christoph Adami, Lee Altenberg, Julie Beaulieu, Peter J.
Bentley, Samuel Bernard, Guillaume Beslon, David M. Bryson, Patryk Chrabaszcz, Nick Cheney,
Antoine Cully, Stephane Doncieux, Fred C. Dyer, Kai Olav Ellefsen, Robert Feldt, Stephan
Fischer, Stephanie Forrest, Antoine Frénoy, Christian Gagné, Leni Le Goff, Laura M. Grabowski,
Babak Hodjat, Frank Hutter, Laurent Keller, Carole Knibbe, Peter Krcah, Richard E. Lenski, Hod
Lipson, Robert MacCurdy, Carlos Maestre, Risto Miikkulainen, Sara Mitri, David E. Moriarty,
Jean-Baptiste Mouret, Anh Nguyen, Charles Ofria, Marc Parizeau, David Parsons, Robert T.
Pennock, William F. Punch, Thomas S. Ray, Marc Schoenauer, Eric Shulte, Karl Sims, Kenneth O.
Stanley, François Taddei, Danesh Tarapore, Simon Thibault, Westley Weimer, Richard Watson, and
Jason Yosinski. The surprising creativity of digital evolution: A collection of anecdotes from the
evolutionary computation and artificial life research communities. Artificial life, 26(2):274–306,
2020.
Jan Leike, David Krueger, Tom Everitt, Miljan Martic, Vishal Maini, and Shane Legg. Scalable agent
alignment via reward modeling: a research direction. arXiv preprint arXiv:1811.07871, 2018.
14

Yen-Chen Lin, Zhang-Wei Hong, Yuan-Hong Liao, Meng-Li Shih, Ming-Yu Liu, and Min Sun.
Tactics of adversarial attack on deep reinforcement learning agents, 2017. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/1703.06748.
David Manheim and Scott Garrabrant. Categorizing variants of goodhart’s law. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1803.04585, 2018.
Jacob Menick, Maja Trebacz, Vladimir Mikulik, John Aslanides, Francis Song, Martin Chadwick,
Mia Glaese, Susannah Young, Lucy Campbell-Gillingham, Geoffrey Irving, et al. Teaching
language models to support answers with verified quotes. arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.11147, 2022.
Reiichiro Nakano, Jacob Hilton, Suchir Balaji, Jeff Wu, Long Ouyang, Christina Kim, Christopher
Hesse, Shantanu Jain, Vineet Kosaraju, William Saunders, et al. Webgpt: Browser-assisted
question-answering with human feedback. arXiv preprint arXiv:2112.09332, 2021.
Richard Ngo. The alignment problem from a deep learning perspective. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2209.00626, 2022.
Stephen M. Omohundro. The basic ai drives. In Proceedings of the First Conference on Artificial
General Intelligence, pages 483–492. IOS Press, 2008. URL http://selfawaresystems.
files.wordpress.com/2008/01/ai_drives_final.pdf.
Long Ouyang, Jeff Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida, Carroll L. Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong
Zhang, Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, John Schulman, Jacob Hilton, Fraser Kelton,
Luke Miller, Maddie Simens, Amanda Askell, Peter Welinder, Jan Leike, and Ryan Lowe. Training
language models to follow instructions with human feedback, 2022. version 1.
Alexander Pan, Kush Bhatia, and Jacob Steinhardt. The effects of reward misspecification: Mapping
and mitigating misaligned models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2201.03544, 2022.
John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alec Radford, and Oleg Klimov. Proximal policy
optimization algorithms. arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.06347, 2017.
Utkarsh Sharma and Jared Kaplan. A neural scaling law from the dimension of the data manifold.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.10802, 2020.
Joar Skalse, Nikolaus H. R. Howe, Dmitrii Krasheninnikov, and David Krueger. Defining and
characterizing reward hacking, 2022. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.13085.
Nate Soares, Benja Fallenstein, Stuart Armstrong, and Eliezer Yudkowsky. Corrigibility. In Workshops
at the Twenty-Ninth AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2015.
Xingyou Song, Yiding Jiang, Stephen Tu, Yilun Du, and Behnam Neyshabur. Observational overfitting
in reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1912.02975, 2019.
Nisan Stiennon, Long Ouyang, Jeff Wu, Daniel M. Ziegler, Ryan Lowe, Chelsea Voss, Alec Radford,
Dario Amodei, and Paul Christiano. Learning to summarize from human feedback. Computing
Research Repository, 2020. version 3.
Cass R Sunstein, Daniel Kahneman, David Schkade, and Ilana Ritov. Predictably incoherent
judgments. Stan. L. Rev., 54:1153, 2001.
Christian Szegedy, Wojciech Zaremba, Ilya Sutskever, Joan Bruna, Dumitru Erhan, Ian Goodfellow,
and Rob Fergus. Intriguing properties of neural networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.6199, 2013.
Jessica Taylor. Quantilizers: A safer alternative to maximizers for limited optimization. In Workshops
at the Thirtieth AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2016.
Alex Turner, Logan Smith, Rohin Shah, Andrew Critch, and Prasad Tadepalli. Optimal policies tend
to seek power. In M. Ranzato, A. Beygelzimer, Y. Dauphin, P.S. Liang, and J. Wortman Vaughan,
editors, Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 34, pages 23063–23074.
Curran Associates, Inc., 2021. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2021/file/
c26820b8a4c1b3c2aa868d6d57e14a79-Paper.pdf.
15

Amy Zhang, Nicolas Ballas, and Joelle Pineau. A dissection of overfitting and generalization in
continuous reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1806.07937, 2018a.
Chiyuan Zhang, Oriol Vinyals, Remi Munos, and Samy Bengio. A study on overfitting in deep
reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1804.06893, 2018b.
Stephan Zheng, Yang Song, Thomas Leung, and Ian Goodfellow. Improving the robustness of deep
neural networks via stability training. In Proceedings of the ieee conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition, pages 4480–4488, 2016.
Simon Zhuang and Dylan Hadfield-Menell. Consequences of misaligned AI. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 33:15763–15773, 2020.
16

A Proof of Regressional Goodhart identity
Lemma. Let X and Z be independent absolutely continuous random variables with X normally
distributed and either (a) Z normally distributed or (b) |Z − E [Z]| < δ for some δ > 0. Then for
any real number c and as δ → 0,
E [X | X + Z = c] = E [X] + (c − E [X] − E [Z]) 
Var (X)
Var (X) + Var (Z) 
+ ε,
where ε = 0 in case (a) and ε = o (Var (Z)) in case (b).
Proof. 
First note that by making the substitutions X
′ 
= X − E [X] and Z
′ 
= Z − E [Z], we may
assume without loss of generality that E [X] = E [Z] = 0. Let Var (X) = σ
2 
and Var (Z) = τ 
2
.
In case (a), the pair (X, X + Z) is bivariate normal with covariance matrix
(
σ
2 
σ
2
σ
2 
σ
2 
+ τ 
2
)
,
and the result follows by standard properties of conditional distributions of multivariate normal
distributions.
In case (b), let f
X 
and f
Z 
be the probability density functions of X and Z respectively. Then
E [X | X + Z = c] =
∫ 
∞
−∞ 
(c − z) f
X 
(c − z) f
Z 
(z) dz
∫ 
∞
−∞ 
f
X 
(c − z) f
Z 
(z) dz
= c −
∫ 
δ
−δ 
z (f
X 
(c) − f 
′
X 
(c) z + o (z)) f
Z 
(z) dz
∫ 
δ
−δ 
(f
X 
(c) − f 
′
X 
(c) z + o (z)) f
Z 
(z) dz
= c − 
f
X 
(c) E [Z] − f 
′
X 
(c) E 
[
Z
2
] 
+ o 
(
E 
[
Z
2
])
f
X 
(c) − f 
′
X 
(c) E [Z] + o (1)
= c + 
f 
′
X 
(c)
f
X 
(c) 
τ 
2 
+ o 
(
τ 
2
)
= c
(
1 − 
τ 
2
σ
2
)
+ o 
(
τ 
2
)
= c
( 
σ
2
σ
2 
+ τ 
2
)
+ o 
(
τ 
2
) 
,
as required.
17

B RL form details
Ideally all overoptimization forms would have finite slope at the origin. We tried the following forms:
• d (α
RL 
− β
RL 
log (1 + d)): Has slope α at the origin; however, has substantially worse
extrapolation behavior. We can replace the 1 with a learned  but that introduces another
degree of freedom.
• Power laws d (α
RL 
− β
RL
d
γ
RL 
): Has slope α at the origin; however, this adds another degree
of freedom, and the best fits resulted in small values of γ
RL
.
Note that the power law forms with small γ
RL 
approximate the RL form that we decided on, as
lim
n→∞ 
n(x
1/n 
− 1) = log x.
C Hyperparameters
Hyperparameter Value
RM Adam learning rate multiplier 1.67e-2
RM batch size 64
RL Adam learning rate multiplier 4e-3
RL batch size 256
RL PPO clipping parameter 0.2
RL Timesteps per rollout 256
RL minibatches per epoch 128
RL GAE bootstrapping parameter 0.95
Table 1: Hyperparameters used throughout the experiments.
18

What is full of holes but still holds water?
n 
Generation Proxy score Gold score
1 Crime\nMussels are typically found
to be full of holes but will the mois-
ture still be retained and will it hurt
my eyes? The general response is
yes as the clam is generally of a
moistest nature. However, it all de-
pends on the type of clam you are
purchasing.<|endoftext|>
-0.1922 -0.5225
3 
Most likely a pipe is having trouble
staying full.<|endoftext|>
0.0322 -0.0165
10 
A sponge<|endoftext|> 0.2336 0.4828
30 When something is full of holes, it
is used for stirring or moving liq-
uid.<|endoftext|>
0.6534 -0.1543
100 
A tornado is usually a swirling cloud
of swirling air with a spinning jet
which stirs up winds full of sharp
debris.<|endoftext|>
0.8968 -0.3367
300 A tornado is usually a swirling cloud
of swirling air with a spinning jet
which stirs up winds full of sharp
debris.<|endoftext|>
0.8968 -0.3367
1000 
A tornado is usually a swirling cloud
of swirling air with a spinning jet
which stirs up winds full of sharp
debris.<|endoftext|>
0.8968 -0.3367
3000 A bore hole is a hole drilled into
a rock for the purpose of explor-
ing a fossil-bearing sedimentary or
bedrock deposit.<|endoftext|>
0.9003 0.2733
10000 A bore hole is a hole drilled into
a rock for the purpose of explor-
ing a fossil-bearing sedimentary or
bedrock deposit.<|endoftext|>
0.9003 0.2733
30000 A pothole is a structural vulnerabil-
ity that allows water to penetrate its
cavity and cause damage to pass-
ing vehicles or the surface it rests
on.<|endoftext|>
0.9527 0.5490
Table 2: A sample of the BoN answers on a single InstructGPT question (policy=1.2B, proxy
RM=12M). For each individual question, the gold scores do not follow as clean a trend as they do
when averaged over many questions as in fig. 1.
19

Figure 10: Maximum gold scores for all RM size and data size combinations.
Figure 11: Validation losses for the proxy RMs in section 3.2 by size, plus the two near-chance level
RMs.
20

Figure 12: Max BoN gold scores (α
bon
/2β
bon
) predicted with the BoN closed form
Figure 13: Total number of data points seen does not seem to affect the gold RM score much compared
to the number of unique data points seen. Averaged across RM sizes. The numbers of datapoints
(2000–8000) is intentionally chosen to straddle the sharp increase in performance. The validation
loss of the 1x2000, 1x8000, and 4x2000 RMs are 0.686109, 0.654857, and 0.683869 respectively.
21

Figure 14: Change in KL
RL 
throughout RL training for various different KL penalties. We observe
that KL distance increases approximately monotonically with step count, and converges for higher
KL penalties.
Figure 15: KL
RL 
with policy size (RM size = 12M)
22

Figure 16: KL
RL 
with RM size
Figure 17: α
bon 
with dataset size, averaged across RM sizes
23

Figure 18: β
bon 
with dataset size, averaged across RM sizes
Figure 19: RM data scaling experiments, BoN, RM size=3B
24

Figure 20: The BoN proxy scores are slightly concave, so that a linear fit does not fit well.
Figure 21: BoN Gold scores at n=1,000, broken down by data size and RM size. See fig. 6 for RM
losses. Vertical dotted line approximately indicates first better-than-random data size.
25

Figure 22: RL experiments with 3B RM and different policy sizes.
Figure 23: fig. 7b with all runs normalized from 0.
26

Figure 24: The gap between the proxy and gold scores in the RL policy sweep (fig. 24).
Figure 25: The fraction of updates clipped by PPO.
27

(a) BoN
Figure 26: Extrapolation quality of fits in fig. 1. The regressions (shown in faint lines) are only fit to
data to the left of the vertical black dotted lines. In the case of BoN, this represents a true advance
prediction, as the functional form was chosen without collecting any data past a KL of 6 nats.
28