# FULL TEXT — WebWalker: Benchmarking LLMs in Web Traversal

https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07572v3

2025-01-14

WebWalker: Benchmarking LLMs in Web Traversal
Jialong Wu, Wenbiao Yin, Yong Jiang( ) , Zhenglin Wang, Zekun Xi, Runnan Fang,
Linhai Zhang, Yulan He, Deyu Zhou, Pengjun Xie, Fei Huang
Tongyi Lab

, Alibaba Group

https://github.com/Alibaba-NLP/WebAgent

arXiv:2501.07572v3 [cs.CL] 10 Aug 2025

Abstract
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) demonstrates remarkable performance
across tasks in open-domain question-answering. However, traditional search
engines may retrieve shallow content, limiting the ability of LLMs to handle
complex, multi-layered information. To address it, we introduce WebWalkerQA, a benchmark designed to assess the ability of LLMs to perform web
traversal. It evaluates the capacity of LLMs to traverse a website’s subpages
to extract high-quality data systematically. We propose WebWalker, which
is a multi-agent framework that mimics human-like web navigation through
an explore-critic paradigm. Extensive experimental results show that WebWalkerQA is challenging and demonstrates the effectiveness of RAG combined
with WebWalker, through the horizontal and vertical integration in real-world
scenarios.

1

Introduction

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive capabilities across a wide range of natural
language processing tasks (Ouyang et al., 2022; OpenAI, 2022a). While their knowledge base remains
static post-training, integrating external search engines via retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) allows
LLMs to retrieve up-to-date information from the web, enhancing their utility in dynamic, knowledgeintensive scenarios (Lewis et al., 2020). However, traditional online search engines, e.g., Google or Bing,
perform horizontal searches of queries and may not effectively trace the deeper content embedded within
websites.
Interacting with the web pages and digging through them can effectively address this issue. Previous
works related to web pages focus on addressing action-based requests, such as Mind2Web (Deng et al.,
2023) and WebArena (Zhou et al., 2024a); these HTML-based instruction-action benchmarks face challenges such as excessively noisy information and overly long inputs, which can significantly hinder
performance due to limitations in long-context understanding. Additionally, they fail to capture the
complexities of real-world scenarios where relevant information is buried deep within web pages and
requires multiple layers of interaction.
To fill this gap, a new task Web Traversal is proposed, given an initial website corresponding to a
query, systematically traverses web pages to uncover information. We propose WebWalkerQA, designed
specifically to evaluate LLMs on their ability to handle queries embedded in complex, multi-step web
interactions on a given root website. WebWalkerQA focuses on text-based reasoning abilities, using a
Question-Answer format to evaluate traversal and problem-solving capabilities in web scenarios. We
constrain actions to “click” to evaluate the agent’s navigation and information-seeking capabilities. This
paradigm is more targeted and aligns better with practical applications. WebWalkerQA reflects real-world
Corresponding author.

1

challenges, emphasizing the depth of the source information across education, conference, organization,
and game domains, where official sources are published and paths to information are more structured
with clickable buttons and reasoning logic. Several types, including multi-source and single-source
QAs, are developed to evaluate the ability of LLMs to mimic different human web-navigation paradigms.
Additionally, we introduce a strong baseline WebWalker, a multi-agent framework designed to emulate human-like web navigation through vertical exploration. The framework consists of an explorer agent and a critic agent. Given the need for reasoning capabilities to navigate and interact
with web pages effectively, the explorer agent is built upon the ReAct framework (Yao et al., 2023),
leveraging a thought-action-observation paradigm,
while the critic agent is responsible for maintaining memory and generating responses based on
the exploration conducted by the explorer agent.
We evaluate the performance of the WebWalker,
built on various mainstream LLMs, including both
closed-source and open-sourced, using WebWalkerQA as the benchmark. However, even with
the most powerful LLMs as the backbone, its performance on WebWalkerQA remains suboptimal,
thereby validating the challenge posed by WebWalkerQA.
1

We then conduct further experiments to validate Figure 1: A multi-source QA example from Webthe integration with the RAG for information- WalkerQA that requires traversing web pages to
seeking QA tasks. Our findings are as follows: gather information for answering the given ques(i) Web navigation still requires efforts in tasks tion.
that demand planning and reasoning; (ii) By combining RAG with the WebWalker, this horizontal
and vertical coordination proves effective; (iii) Vertical exploration of pages offers a promising direction
for scaling inference time in RAG systems.
The contributions of our work are as follows:
• We construct a challenging benchmark, WebWalkerQA, which is composed of 680 queries from
four real-world scenarios across over 1373 webpages.
• To tackle the challenge of web-navigation tasks requiring long context, we propose WebWalker,
which utilizes a multi-agent framework for effective memory management.
• Extensive experiments show that the WebWalkerQA is challenging, and for information-seeking
tasks, vertical exploration within the page proves to be beneficial.

2

Related Work

2.1

Web-Oriented Benchmark

Before the era of LLMs, several web-oriented benchmarks had already been proposed (Liu et al., 2018;
Xu et al., 2021; Humphreys et al., 2022; Yao et al., 2022; Mialon et al., 2024; Xu et al., 2024). LLMs are
capable of interacting with complex environments, like the open web in HTML or DOM format (Tan
et al., 2024), leading to the development of an increasing number of benchmarks aimed at evaluating the
interaction capabilities of LLMs with web content. The widely used benchmark today, Mind2Web (Deng
et al., 2023), is a dataset designed for evaluating web agents that follow instructions to complete complex
tasks, typically through multiple-choice questions. Subsequent works have extended the interaction to
1 In our paper, multi-source refers to the requirement of information from multi distinct web pages.

2

Language

Format

Depth

Width

Hop

# Pages

Mind2Web (Deng et al., 2023)
WebArena (Zhou et al., 2024a)
AssistantBench (Yoran et al., 2024)
MMInA (Zhang et al., 2024c)
GAIA (Mialon et al., 2024)

En
En
En
En
En

Multi-choice
Action
QA
Action
QA

✗
✗
✗
✗
✗

✗
✗
✓
✓
✓

✗
✗
✓
✓
✓

100
6
525
100
-

WebWalkerQA

En&Zh

QA

✓

✓

✓

1373

Table 1: Comparison between WebWalkerQA and other benchmarks. Depth refers to the extent of
exploration required on a given website. Width denotes whether answering a query necessitates multiple
sources. Hop indicates whether multiple steps are required to complete the task. #Pages refers to the
number of webpages involved.
the vision domain, incorporating information from screenshots (Zheng et al., 2024a;b; He et al., 2024a;
Koh et al., 2024a; Cheng et al., 2024). The web-oriented benchmark is becoming progressively more
human-like, vision-centric, and increasingly broad, complex, and realistic (Liu et al., 2024; Hong et al.,
2024; Kim et al., 2024; Zhang et al., 2024c). The most closely to ours are the MMInA (Zhang et al.,
2024c) and AssistantBench (Yoran et al., 2024), both of which focus on time-consuming tasks that require
navigation across multiple pages. In our work, WebWalkerQA takes the form of QA pairs. Unlike all
previous works, we construct both single-source and multi-source queries from the width perspectives of
the website, aiming to simulate two types of page exploration patterns typically exhibited by humans.
The comparison between WebWalkerQA and other benchmarks is shown in Table 2.

2.2

Agents on Web-Navigation

Based on web-oriented benchmarks, numerous web agents have been proposed (Nakano et al., 2021;
Liu et al., 2023; Zhou et al., 2023; Lai et al., 2024; Zhou et al., 2024b). Web agents primarily follow
two lines of development: one leverages a small language model trained specifically to filter actions
or identify relevant HTML elements (Zheng et al., 2024a; Deng et al., 2024; Furuta et al., 2024). The
other line focuses on prompting LLMs (Reddy et al., 2024; Song et al., 2024; Koh et al., 2024b), where
different agentic modules are used to guide the model in accomplishing complex web navigation tasks
more effectively. In addition, with the rise of visual web-oriented benchmarks, many agents now use
screenshots as sensory input (He et al., 2024b; Abuelsaad et al., 2024; Iong et al., 2024). Unlike previous
works, WebWalker specializes in information-seeking by reasoning over HTML button data. It emulates
human-like page interactions with web pages to access reliable, authoritative information utilizing a
multi-agent framework.

3

WebWalkerQA
Multi-source

Single-source

Traverse
URL Tree

(a) Root Official Website

Root page
Query
2nd level page Generation
3rd level page
4th level page

(b) Sublinks and Subpages

Manual
Annotation

(c) Synthetic QA-Pairs

(d) Verified QA-Pairs

Figure 2: Data Generation Pipeline for WebWalkerQA. We first collect root official websites across conference, organization, education, and game domains. Then we mimic human behavior by systematically
clicking and collecting subpages accessible through sublinks on the root page. Using predefined rules, we
leverage GPT4o to generate synthetic QA-pairs based on the gathered information, followed by manual
verification to ensure accuracy and relevance.

3

We present WebWalkerQA in this section, starting with an overview of the data collection process to
ensure quality (§3.1), followed by a discussion of WebWalkerQA’s statistics (§3.2). Finally, we introduce
the new task, Web Traversal, and describe the evaluation metrics for WebWalkerQA(§3.3).

3.1

Data Collection

To make the annotation process cost-efficient and accurate, we employ a two-stage funnel annotation
strategy, combining LLM-based and human annotation. In the first stage, GPT-4o (OpenAI, 2022b),
performs initial annotations, followed by a second stage, where crowd-sourced human annotators
conduct quality control and filtering to refine the final results. The overall data collection pipeline is
illustrated in Figure 2.
LLM-based Annotation

The collection pipeline is outlined as follows:

• Step1: Traverse official websites recursively, collecting information on accessible sub-links and
their respective pages.
• Step2: Construct queries based on the provided page information and specified role, such as
focusing on the solo page or considering both pages simultaneously.
• Step3: Verify and filter for legitimate queries that deviate from natural, human-like phrasing,
retaining only QA pairs with short answers containing entities.
The additional details, including step-specific prompts and case examples, are provided in Appendix E.
As illustrated in Figure 2 (b), our dataset construction includes both multi-source and single-source
types, corresponding to two types of human information-seeking behaviours within web pages. The
single-source type simulates a user deeply exploring a single piece of information hidden within web
pages, while the multi-source type simulates multi-source scenarios where users rely on multiple
pages to solve a query. Notably, the multi-source QA tasks can not be easily exploited by search engine
shortcuts (Mavi et al., 2024).
Human Annotation After the synthetic queries are generated by LLM, human annotators can rewrite
and calibrate the questions and answers to ensure the QA pairs are correct and consistent.

3.2

Data Statistics

Through such data construction method with LLM and human participation, we obtain 680 questionanswer pairs for WebWalkerQA. The annotated case is shown in Figure 8. We will provide comprehensive
statistics on WebWalkerQA, categorized by type, domain, and language.
Type WebWalkerQA contains two types of data:
multi-source and single-source QAs. SingleSingle-source QAs
Multi-source QAs
source QAs are labeled as single_sourcei , where i ∈
[2, 4], denoting the depth of the corresponding subEasy Medium Hard Easy Medium
Hard
page. Similarly, Multi-source QAs are labeled as
80
140
120
80
140
120
multi_sourcei , where i ∈ [2, 8], representing the sum
of the depths of the two associated subpages2 . In Table 2: Dataset statistics on data difficulty level.
other words, answering this query requires reading
both pages simultaneously.
Difficulty Level We categorize the questions into three difficulty levels: easy, medium, and hard,
based on the value of i. Specifically, single_source2 , single_source3 , and single_source4 correspond to
2 Taking multi_source as an example, it may refer to a query constructed from two 3rd level pages or from one
6
page at the 2nd level and another at the 4th level.

4

the easy, medium, and hard levels, respectively. Similarly, for multi-source questions, multi_source2−4 ,
multi_source4−6 , and multi_source6−8 correspond to the easy, medium, and hard levels, respectively. The
data statistics for the different data types are presented in Table 2.
Domain WebWalkerQA encompasses four real-world domains: conference, organization, education,
and game. These domains are selected because they provide authoritative information relevant to their
respective fields, and their pages contain rich clickable content, offering substantial depth for exploration.
Language WebWalkerQA is a bilingual dataset that
includes both Chinese and English3 , reflecting the
most widely used and universal languages in realworld web environments.

Language Distribution

39.5%
60.5%

Domain Distribution
Languages
English
Chinese

24.0%

21.9%
7.9%

46.3%

Domains

Conference
Education
Organization
Game

The statistics of WebWalkerQA on domain and language are illustrated in Figure 3. The proportions of
Figure 3: The language and domain distribution.
the conference, organization, education, and game
domains are 24.0%, 7.9%, 46.3%, and 24.0%, respectively. In terms of language distribution, Chinese and English account for 60.5%, 39.5%, respectively.
WebWalkerQA features a diverse distribution of languages and domains to ensure a comprehensive
evaluation.

3.3

Web Traversal Task and Evaluation

Formally, given an initial website URL Uroot and a query Q, which needs to be answered by exploring
the website. The goal of this task is to gather enough information through page traversal to ultimately
answer the query Q. The task is to navigate the website to find the corresponding information.
WebWalkerQA can be evaluated from both performance and efficiency perspectives. using questionanswering accuracy (acc.) as the performance metric and the action count (A.C.) of successful agentic
executions answering correctly as the efficiency metric. Due to the varying lengths of generated text, it is
challenging to perform exact match evaluation, even though we have controlled for short answers. We
use GPT-4 as the evaluator, which determines the correctness of responses by comparing the predicted
answer with the ground truth using CoT prompting strategy (Wei et al., 2022)4 .

4

WebWalker

We introduce WebWalker, a multi-agent framework designed to interact with web environments to
answer queries. The WebWalker framework consists of two agents: an explorer agent and a critic agent.
As illustrated in Figure 4, the explorer agent traverses the web pages in Thought-Action-Observation
(T , A, O ) paradigms. The critic agent updates the memory until sufficient information is accumulated
to effectively address the query. The details regarding prompts for both agents are presented in Appendix E.3.

4.1

Think then Explore

The explorer agent explores the subpages by interacting with HTML buttons on the page. At time step t,
the explorer agent receives an observation Ot from the web environment and takes an action At , following
the policy π (At |Ht ). The observation Ot = ( pt , lt ) consists of the information from the current page pt
and a set of clickable sublinks lt = {buttoni }iK=1 , where each buttoni describes HTML button information
3 Classification based on the language of the root webpages.
4 https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/langchain/evaluation.html, Details of the prompt for the
evaluator are provided in Appendix F

5

Figure 4: The overall framework of WebWalker.
for one of the K sublinks and have an associated URL. The action At involves selecting a URL of a subpage to explore and does not encompass answering the question. Specifically, we utilize the web page’s
markdown content along with clickable HTML buttons (and corresponding URL) extracted using Beautiful Soup as the observation for the current page. The context Ht = (T1 , A1 , O1 , · · · , Ot−1 , Tt , At , Ot )
represents the sequence of past observations and actions leading up to the current step t. The context will
be updated, and this exploration process will continue until the critic agent determines to answer the
query or the maximum number of steps is reached.

4.2

Think then Critique

Due to the policy π (At |Ht ) being implicit and the potentially large size of Ht , motivated by pair
programming (Williams et al., 2000; Noori & Kazemifard, 2015), we incorporate a critic agent into the
WebWalker framework to address these challenges. The critic agent operates after each execution of the
explorer agent. Its input consists of the query and the explorer’s current observation. The critic initializes
a memory to incrementally accumulate relevant information. Formally, at each step, t, following the
execution of the explorer agent, the critic agent takes the query Q and the explorer’s current observation
and action (Ot , At ) as input. It then updates the memory M, evaluates whether the gathered information
is sufficiently complete to answer the query, and provides an answer once the required information is
deemed sufficient.

5

Experiment

5.1

Experimental Setting

Baselines We choose widely recognized state-of-the-art agent frameworks, ReAct and Reflexion, as our
baselines. ReAct (Yao et al., 2023) is a general paradigm that combines reasoning and acting with LLMs
by multiple thought-action-observation steps. Reflexion (Shinn et al., 2024) is a single-agent framework
designed to reinforce language agents through feedback.

6

Single-source QA

Multi-source QA
Overall

Backbones

Method

Easy

Medium

Hard

acc.

A.C.

acc.

A.C.

acc.

A.C.

GPT-4o

ReAct
Reflexion
WebWalker

53.75
56.25
55.00

2.53
2.91
2.97

45.00
51.43
50.00

3.34
3.88
3.43

30.00
30.83
30.00

5.61
5.75
6.02

Qwen-Plus

ReAct
Reflexion
WebWalker

48.75
53.75
55.00

1.67
3.66
3.72

48.57
40.00
47.14

2.69
3.79
3.19

28.33
24.17
30.00

4.00
5.88
6.13

Qwen-2.5
-7B

ReAct
Reflexion
WebWalker

37.50
37.50
41.25

3.36
4.03
3.39

18.5 7
25.00
24.71

4.88
3.48
3.86

9.17
11.67
12.50

5.45
4.57
5.93

Qwen-2.5
-14B

ReAct
Reflexion
WebWalker

36.25
46.25
41.25

1.86
2.21
2.42

32.14
34.29
41.43

2.75
2.83
3.24

15.00
15.00
23.33

Qwen-2.5
-32B

ReAct
Reflexion
WebWalker

47.50
42.50
41.25

2.21
2.52
2.69

35.71
32.86
34.29

3.20
2.65
4.14

Qwen-2.5
-72B

ReAct
Reflexion
WebWalker

47.50
57.50
58.75

1.68
3.04
2.70

38.57
44.29
48.57

2.79
3.88
3.07

Easy
acc.

Medium

Hard

A.C.

acc.

A.C.

acc.

A.C.

acc.

A.C.

32.50
35.00
47.50

2.34
3.67
4.00

31.43
27.14
34.29

3.97
4.13
3.85

15.00
16.67
15.83

6.77
7.05
6.57

33.82
35.29
37.50

3.83
4.27
4.67

35.00
47.50
35.00

2.60
3.28
3.89

27.86
30.00
27.14

3.11
4.07
4.39

14.17
15.00
15.00

6.55
7.11
7.38

33.08
33.23
33.82

3.03
4.32
4.36

17.50
30.00
18.75

3.42
2.66
3.00

11.43
15.71
20.71

3.62
5.45
3.34

5.83
4.17
5.83

4.57
7.8
7.28

16.02
19.11
19.85

2.99
4.07
3.94

3.61
4.44
4.42

27.50
36.25
30.00

2.31
2.51
3.95

22.86
22.86
22.86

3.00
3.34
3.56

5.00
5.83
10.00

5.00
5.42
6.16

22.35
25.14
27.50

2.76
3.01
3.60

16.67
16.67
22.50

3.55
3.90
5.14

36.25
31.25
27.50

2.68
2.84
3.13

18.57
23.57
25.00

3.00
3.12
3.51

8.33
5.83
10.00

3.70
5.00
6.08

25.44
23.26
26.02

2.93
3.00
3.90

20.00
28.33
25.83

4.04
5.82
5.77

45.00
36.25
35.00

2.25
3.62
3.57

32.14
25.00
29.29

3.13
3.60
4.87

10.00
12.50
15.00

5.41
6.26
7.38

30.73
32.50
33.26

2.86
4.09
4.32

Closed-Sourced LLMs

Open-Sourced LLMs

Table 3: Main results of three methods across closed-sourced and open-sourced LLMs as the backbone.
Acc. and A.C. refer to accuracy and action count, respectively.
Backbones To thoroughly assess the web traversal capabilities of existing LLM-based agents, we select
models with a context window of at least 128K to accommodate the extensive length of page information.
Given the inherent complexity of the task, we opt for models with at least 7B parameters. We validate a
total number of nine models, including both closed-sourced and open-sourced ones:
Closed-sourced LLMs GPT-4o5 (OpenAI, 2022b); Qwen-Plus6 (Team, 2024); Open-sourced LLMs Qwen2.5
series models (Yang et al., 2024) specifically, Qwen2.5-{7,14,32,72}B-Instruct.7
Implementation Details Considering the context limitation of models, our proposed WebWalker, along
with two baselines, all operate in a zero-shot setting. We limit the number of actions K for the explorer
agent to 15, meaning that the explorer agent can explore at most 15 steps. More implementation details
are presented in Appendix B.

5.2

Main Results

The main results across six LLMs are presented in Table 3. The closed-source models outperform the opensource models in both performance and efficiency. For open-source models, performance and efficiency
improves as the model size increases. Our proposed WebWalker framework outperforms Reflexion,
which in turn outperforms React. We only counted the action count (A.C.) from correct executions, and
as the model size increases, the A.C. grows, indicating that larger LLMs have enhanced long-range
information-seeking ability. Even the best-performing WebWalker using GPT-4o as its backbone does not
surpass 40%, highlighting the challenge posed by WebWalkerQA. It can be observed that as the depth
increases or the number of sources required increases, the difficulty of acquiring the information needed
to resolve the query becomes greater, resulting in a decline in accuracy performance.
The performance distribution of accuracy and action count for different methods across various models is
5 https://platform.openai.com/docs/models#gpt-4o
6 https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/model-studio/
7 The LLaMA series models (Dubey et al., 2024) demonstrate limited ability to handle react-format instructions in
our preliminary experiments.

7

35

Accuracy

30

GPT-4o
GPT-4o
Qwen-Plus
Qwen-72B
Qwen-Plus
Qwen-72B

Qwen-Plus
Qwen-72B

Qwen-32B
Qwen-32B
Qwen-14B

25

Qwen-7B

English
WebWalker
React
Reflexion

Qwen-14B

Qwen-PlusConference
vs Qwen-14B on A.C.
6.5

Organization

Chinese

Education

English

0.2
0.1

Qwen-7B
Qwen-7B

10
5

Qwen-PlusConference
vs Qwen-14B on Acc.
0.5
Chinese

Qwen-14B
Qwen-32B

20
15

GPT-4o

2.75 3.00 3.25 3.50 3.75 4.00 4.25 4.50 4.75
Action Count

Qwen-Plus Acc.
Qwen-14B Acc.

(a)

Game

Qwen-Plus A.C.
Qwen-14B A.C.

4
3.5
2.3
2

Organization
Education

Game

(b)

Figure 5: (a) ▲ represents WebWalker using various models as backbones, ■ represents Reflextion with
different backbone models, and • denotes ReAct employing various backbone models. (b) Performance
across domains and languages of WebWalker building upon Qwen-14B and Qwen-Plus.
shown in Figure ??. The further towards the top-right corner, the more effective and prolonged the web
traversal becomes. We observe that increasing the model size or introducing reflection on the process of
each action can address certain problems requiring multi-step solutions, thereby enabling long-distance
task-solving capabilities in web traversal tasks.

5.3

Results across Domains and Languages

WebWalkerQA is a bilingual dataset encompassing both Chinese and English and spans multiple domains,
including games, conferences, education, and organizations. The performance across different domains
and languages is shown in Figure ??. In the domain of conference, the framework demonstrates relatively
superior performance, likely due to the more explicit and directive nature of the button information,
which facilitates more straightforward inferences. The framework performs similarly in both Chinese
and English, as the models we employed are both pre-trained and supervised-fine-tuned in a bilingual
setting.

5.4

Error Assessment

For incorrect execution, errors can also be categorized
Prediction Distribution
into three types: refusal to answer or locating wrongly,
WebWalker
(Qwen-Plus)
reasoning error, and exceeding the maximum number
of steps K. The prediction distribution is shown in WebWalker (Qwen-14B)
Figure 6. The model with a relatively small number
ReAct (Qwen-Plus)
of parameters using the ReAct framework lacks the
capacity to explore the depth of information, making
ReAct (Qwen-14B)
judgments within just a few iterations of taking action,
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Percentage (%)
Correct
Exceeding K
regardless of whether relevant information has been
Refusal or Locating Wrongly
Reasoning Error
found. It tends to “give up” and exhibits characteristics of impatience. Introducing memory to manage the Figure 6: Predication distribution of WebWalker
long context, along with an increase in model param- and React method building on Qwen-14B and
eters, provides evidence that this phenomenon stems Qwen-Plus.
from the interference of long contexts having noisy
information and the inherent capabilities of the model itself, consistent with the analysis drawn in §5.2.
Some errors are categorized as reasoning errors, where the golden page has been found in the visited
pages but is still incorrectly marked. This underscores the challenge of reasoning on page information in
certain cases.8
8 The corresponding case is presented in Appendix G.1.

8

Single-source QA

Multi-source QA

Systems

Overall
Easy

Medium

Hard

Easy

Medium

Hard

Close Book (No Retrieval)
Gemini-1.5-Pro
o1-preview

12.50
16.25

7.86
10.00

8.33
9.17

11.25
7.50

Doubao
Gemini-Search
ERNIE-4.0-8K
Kimi
Tongyi

45.00
40.00
52.50
77.50
41.25

15.00
32.14
30.00
41.43
45.00

Naive RAG
MindSearch

37.50
15.00

25.71
11.43

24.17
10.83

Avg.

37.50

24.29

23.42

6.43
10.71

5.00
6.67

8.08
9.85

8.57
23.57
18.57
26.43
41.43

10.00
17.50
30.00
22.50
34.17

16.76
27.94
28.97
37.35
40.73

20.00
8.75

14.29
12.14

12.50
10.00

20.73
11.32

19.86

18.02

16.48

-

Commerical Systems
18.33
29.17
28.33
40.83
41.67

13.75
30.00
21.25
26.25
40.00

Open-Sourced Systems

Table 4: Accuracy results on Commercial and Open-sourced Searched-enhanced RAG systems.

6

Discussion

6.1

RAG Performance on WebWalkerQA

We evaluate the performance of RAG systems in tackling WebWalkerQA’s challenges, specifically, whether
they can retrieve deep information, presented in Table 4.
We first evaluate the performance under Close Book settings using the state-of-the-art model OpenAI
o1 (OpenAI, 2024) and Gemini-1.5-Pro without retrieval. We then access the performance of several
commercial and open-sourced RAG systems9 . Without performing the search, even the strongest models
exhibit very poor performance. WebWalkerQA is built on official websites with dynamically updated
information, while pre-trained models rely on static knowledge limited by a cutoff date and lack dynamic
updates10 . Both commercial and open-sourced RAG systems exhibit relatively poor performance on
WebWalkerQA, with the best result coming from Tongyi, which only reaches 40%. Commercial RAG
systems are typically modular, consisting of various components such as rewrite, router, reranker, and
others. Some systems, like ERNIE, may have stronger search capabilities for Chinese, resulting in higher
values. For open-sourced RAG systems, Multi-source queries have lower accuracy than Single-source
queries, which validates the challenge posed by WebWalkerQA, as search engines are unable to retrieve
all relevant information in one or several single horizontal search attempts. Furthermore, as the difficulty
increases, e.g. the depth of information growing deeper, the performance tends to deteriorate. Overall,
search engines still face challenges when retrieving content that is buried deeper.
Findings (i): RAG systems struggle with key challenges that require effective web traversal.

6.2

WebWalker Combined with RAG System

The standard RAG system can be viewed as a horizontal search for relevant documents in response
to a query, while WebWalker can be considered as a vertical exploration approach. WebWalker can
seamlessly integrate into standard RAG systems to acquire deep information and enhance problemsolving capabilities. We integrate WebWalker building upon Qwen-2.5-Plus into the naive RAG system,
and the detailed results are shown in Figure 7(a). The core contribution of WebWalker is providing
useful information for question answering; specifically, the memory M of the critic agent is append to
the relevant documents to aid in generation. It is observed that, after the integration, performance has
improved across all difficulty levels, especially in the multi-source category.
9 The commercial RAG systems are accessed through business-oriented API. The details of RAG systems are

provided in Appendix C.
10 The case study is shown in Appendix G.2.

9

RAG
RAG w/ WebWalker

0.4

Performace

Performance

0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.0

0.3
0.2

0.0

SS easy SS medium SS hard MS easy MS medium MS hard
(a)

WebWalker
RAG

0.1
0

5

10

15

Number of Action K

20

25

(b)

Figure 7: (a) Performance under standard RAG and RAG combined with WebWalker configurations. SS
and MS denote single-source and multi-source QAs. (b) Overall performance on WebWalker and
RAG combined WebWalker at varying values of K, using Qwen-Plus as backbones.
Findings (ii): WebWalker can be a module in agentic RAG system, enabling vertical exploration .

6.3

Scaling Up on Action Count K

Previous work (Yue et al., 2024) explored the inference scaling laws for the RAG system by examining the
impact of increasing retrieved documents. We scale up the amount of K ∈ {5, 10, 15, 20, 25} to study the
impact of scaling during the inference phase when tracing source information. Figure 7(b) shows the
results of scaling up, where larger values of K lead to better performance, validating the feasibility of
vertical scaling within a certain range.
Findings (iii): Scaling the process of digging through links could represent a potential direction for vertical
exploration in RAG systems.

7

Conclusion

We introduce WebWalkerQA, a benchmark for evaluating LLMs’ web traversal abilities in complex, multistep information-seeking tasks. We also proposed WebWalker, a multi-agent framework that mimics
human-like web navigation, combining exploration and critique. Experiments show that WebWalkerQA
effectively challenges RAG systems, and combining RAG with WebWalker improves web navigation
performance. Our work highlights the importance of deep, vertical exploration in web-based tasks,
paving the way for more scalable and reliable LLM-based information retrieval integrated with RAG.

10

References
Tamer Abuelsaad, Deepak Akkil, Prasenjit Dey, Ashish Jagmohan, Aditya Vempaty, and Ravi Kokku.
Agent-e: From autonomous web navigation to foundational design principles in agentic systems. In
NeurIPS 2024 Workshop on Open-World Agents, 2024.
Zehui Chen, Kuikun Liu, Qiuchen Wang, Jiangning Liu, Wenwei Zhang, Kai Chen, and Feng Zhao.
Mindsearch: Mimicking human minds elicits deep ai searcher. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.20183, 2024a.
Zehui Chen, Kuikun Liu, Qiuchen Wang, Wenwei Zhang, Jiangning Liu, Dahua Lin, Kai Chen, and Feng
Zhao. Agent-FLAN: Designing data and methods of effective agent tuning for large language models.
In Lun-Wei Ku, Andre Martins, and Vivek Srikumar (eds.), Findings of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: ACL 2024, pp. 9354–9366, Bangkok, Thailand, August 2024b. Association for Computational
Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2024.findings-acl.557. URL https://aclanthology.org/2024.findin
gs-acl.557.
Kanzhi Cheng, Qiushi Sun, Yougang Chu, Fangzhi Xu, Yantao Li, Jianbing Zhang, and Zhiyong Wu.
Seeclick: Harnessing gui grounding for advanced visual gui agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.10935,
2024.
Xiang Deng, Yu Gu, Boyuan Zheng, Shijie Chen, Samuel Stevens, Boshi Wang, Huan Sun, and Yu Su.
Mind2web: Towards a generalist agent for the web. In Thirty-seventh Conference on Neural Information
Processing Systems Datasets and Benchmarks Track, 2023. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=ki
YqbO3wqw.
Yang Deng, Xuan Zhang, Wenxuan Zhang, Yifei Yuan, See-Kiong Ng, and Tat-Seng Chua. On the multiturn instruction following for conversational web agents. In Lun-Wei Ku, Andre Martins, and Vivek
Srikumar (eds.), Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics
(Volume 1: Long Papers), pp. 8795–8812, Bangkok, Thailand, August 2024. Association for Computational
Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2024.acl-long.477. URL https://aclanthology.org/2024.acl-long.
477.
Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri, Abhinav Pandey, Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad Al-Dahle, Aiesha Letman, Akhil Mathur, Alan Schelten, Amy Yang, Angela Fan, Anirudh Goyal, Anthony Hartshorn, Aobo
Yang, Archi Mitra, Archie Sravankumar, Artem Korenev, Arthur Hinsvark, Arun Rao, Aston Zhang,
Aurélien Rodriguez, Austen Gregerson, and et al. The llama 3 herd of models. CoRR, abs/2407.21783,
2024. doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.2407.21783. URL https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2407.21783.
Hiroki Furuta, Kuang-Huei Lee, Ofir Nachum, Yutaka Matsuo, Aleksandra Faust, Shixiang Shane Gu,
and Izzeddin Gur. Multimodal web navigation with instruction-finetuned foundation models. In The
Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations, 2024. URL https://openreview.net/for
um?id=efFmBWioSc.
Hongliang He, Wenlin Yao, Kaixin Ma, Wenhao Yu, Yong Dai, Hongming Zhang, Zhenzhong Lan,
and Dong Yu. WebVoyager: Building an end-to-end web agent with large multimodal models. In
Lun-Wei Ku, Andre Martins, and Vivek Srikumar (eds.), Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pp. 6864–6890, Bangkok, Thailand,
August 2024a. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2024.acl-long.371. URL
https://aclanthology.org/2024.acl-long.371.
Hongliang He, Wenlin Yao, Kaixin Ma, Wenhao Yu, Hongming Zhang, Tianqing Fang, Zhenzhong Lan,
and Dong Yu. Openwebvoyager: Building multimodal web agents via iterative real-world exploration,
feedback and optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.19609, 2024b.

11

Wenyi Hong, Weihan Wang, Qingsong Lv, Jiazheng Xu, Wenmeng Yu, Junhui Ji, Yan Wang, Zihan Wang,
Yuxiao Dong, Ming Ding, et al. Cogagent: A visual language model for gui agents. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pp. 14281–14290, 2024.
Peter C Humphreys, David Raposo, Tobias Pohlen, Gregory Thornton, Rachita Chhaparia, Alistair Muldal,
Josh Abramson, Petko Georgiev, Adam Santoro, and Timothy Lillicrap. A data-driven approach for
learning to control computers. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pp. 9466–9482. PMLR,
2022.
Iat Long Iong, Xiao Liu, Yuxuan Chen, Hanyu Lai, Shuntian Yao, Pengbo Shen, Hao Yu, Yuxiao Dong,
and Jie Tang. Openwebagent: An open toolkit to enable web agents on large language models. In
Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 3: System
Demonstrations), pp. 72–81, 2024.
Geunwoo Kim, Pierre Baldi, and Stephen McAleer. Language models can solve computer tasks. Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36, 2024.
Jing Yu Koh, Robert Lo, Lawrence Jang, Vikram Duvvur, Ming Chong Lim, Po-Yu Huang, Graham Neubig,
Shuyan Zhou, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Daniel Fried. Visualwebarena: Evaluating multimodal agents
on realistic visual web tasks. In ICLR 2024 Workshop on Large Language Model (LLM) Agents, 2024a.
Jing Yu Koh, Stephen McAleer, Daniel Fried, and Ruslan Salakhutdinov. Tree search for language model
agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.01476, 2024b.
Hanyu Lai, Xiao Liu, Iat Long Iong, Shuntian Yao, Yuxuan Chen, Pengbo Shen, Hao Yu, Hanchen Zhang,
Xiaohan Zhang, Yuxiao Dong, et al. Autowebglm: A large language model-based web navigating
agent. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pp.
5295–5306, 2024.
Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal,
Heinrich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rocktäschel, et al. Retrieval-augmented generation for
knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 33:9459–9474, 2020.
Evan Zheran Liu, Kelvin Guu, Panupong Pasupat, Tianlin Shi, and Percy Liang. Reinforcement learning
on web interfaces using workflow-guided exploration. arXiv preprint arXiv:1802.08802, 2018.
Xiao Liu, Hanyu Lai, Hao Yu, Yifan Xu, Aohan Zeng, Zhengxiao Du, Peng Zhang, Yuxiao Dong, and
Jie Tang. Webglm: Towards an efficient web-enhanced question answering system with human
preferences. In Proceedings of the 29th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining,
pp. 4549–4560, 2023.
Xiao Liu, Hao Yu, Hanchen Zhang, Yifan Xu, Xuanyu Lei, Hanyu Lai, Yu Gu, Hangliang Ding, Kaiwen
Men, Kejuan Yang, Shudan Zhang, Xiang Deng, Aohan Zeng, Zhengxiao Du, Chenhui Zhang, Sheng
Shen, Tianjun Zhang, Yu Su, Huan Sun, Minlie Huang, Yuxiao Dong, and Jie Tang. Agentbench:
Evaluating LLMs as agents. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations, 2024.
URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=zAdUB0aCTQ.
Vaibhav Mavi, Anubhav Jangra, and Adam Jatowt. Multi-hop question answering, 2024. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2204.09140.
Grégoire Mialon, Clémentine Fourrier, Thomas Wolf, Yann LeCun, and Thomas Scialom. GAIA: a
benchmark for general AI assistants. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations,
2024. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=fibxvahvs3.
Reiichiro Nakano, Jacob Hilton, Suchir Balaji, Jeff Wu, Long Ouyang, Christina Kim, Christopher Hesse,
Shantanu Jain, Vineet Kosaraju, William Saunders, et al. Webgpt: Browser-assisted question-answering
with human feedback. arXiv preprint arXiv:2112.09332, 2021.
12

Dang Nguyen, Jian Chen, Yu Wang, Gang Wu, Namyong Park, Zhengmian Hu, Hanjia Lyu, Junda Wu,
Ryan Aponte, Yu Xia, et al. Gui agents: A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.13501, 2024.
Fariba Noori and Mohammad Kazemifard. Simulation of pair programming using multi-agent and mbti
personality model. In 2015 Sixth International Conference of Cognitive Science (ICCS), pp. 29–36. IEEE,
2015.
OpenAI. Introducing ChatGPT, 2022a. URL https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt.
OpenAI. Gpt-4 system card, 2022b. URL https://cdn.openai.com/papers/gpt-4-system-card.pdf.
OpenAI. Introducing openai o1, 2024. URL https://openai.com/o1/.
Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida, Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong Zhang,
Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, et al. Training language models to follow instructions
with human feedback. Advances in neural information processing systems, 35:27730–27744, 2022.
Shuofei Qiao, Ningyu Zhang, Runnan Fang, Yujie Luo, Wangchunshu Zhou, Yuchen Jiang, Chengfei
Lv, and Huajun Chen. AutoAct: Automatic agent learning from scratch for QA via self-planning. In
Lun-Wei Ku, Andre Martins, and Vivek Srikumar (eds.), Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pp. 3003–3021, Bangkok, Thailand,
August 2024. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2024.acl-long.165. URL
https://aclanthology.org/2024.acl-long.165.
Revanth Gangi Reddy, Sagnik Mukherjee, Jeonghwan Kim, Zhenhailong Wang, Dilek Hakkani-Tur,
and Heng Ji. Infogent: An agent-based framework for web information aggregation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.19054, 2024.
Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Ashwin Gopinath, Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu Yao. Reflexion:
Language agents with verbal reinforcement learning. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
36, 2024.
Yueqi Song, Frank Xu, Shuyan Zhou, and Graham Neubig. Beyond browsing: Api-based web agents.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.16464, 2024.
Jiejun Tan, Zhicheng Dou, Wen Wang, Mang Wang, Weipeng Chen, and Ji-Rong Wen. Htmlrag: Html is
better than plain text for modeling retrieved knowledge in rag systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.02959,
2024.
Qwen Team. Qwen2.5: A party of foundation models, September 2024. URL https://qwenlm.github.
io/blog/qwen2.5/.
Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc V Le, Denny Zhou,
et al. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models. Advances in neural
information processing systems, 35:24824–24837, 2022.
Laurie Williams, Robert R Kessler, Ward Cunningham, and Ron Jeffries. Strengthening the case for pair
programming. IEEE software, 17(4):19–25, 2000.
Kevin Xu, Yeganeh Kordi, Tanay Nayak, Ado Asija, Yizhong Wang, Kate Sanders, Adam Byerly, Jingyu
Zhang, Benjamin Van Durme, and Daniel Khashabi. Tur[k]ingbench: A challenge benchmark for web
agents, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11905.
Nancy Xu, Sam Masling, Michael Du, Giovanni Campagna, Larry Heck, James Landay, and Monica Lam.
Grounding open-domain instructions to automate web support tasks. In Kristina Toutanova, Anna
Rumshisky, Luke Zettlemoyer, Dilek Hakkani-Tur, Iz Beltagy, Steven Bethard, Ryan Cotterell, Tanmoy
Chakraborty, and Yichao Zhou (eds.), Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chapter
13

of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, pp. 1022–1032, Online,
June 2021. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2021.naacl-main.80. URL
https://aclanthology.org/2021.naacl-main.80.
An Yang, Baosong Yang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chang Zhou, Chengpeng Li, Chengyuan
Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, Guanting Dong, Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jialong Tang, Jialin Wang,
Jian Yang, Jianhong Tu, Jianwei Zhang, Jianxin Ma, Jianxin Yang, Jin Xu, Jingren Zhou, and et al.
Qwen2 technical report. CoRR, abs/2407.10671, 2024. doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.2407.10671. URL
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2407.10671.
Shunyu Yao, Howard Chen, John Yang, and Karthik Narasimhan. Webshop: Towards scalable real-world
web interaction with grounded language agents. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 35:
20744–20757, 2022.
Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik R Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao.
React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. In The Eleventh International Conference on
Learning Representations, 2023. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=WE_vluYUL-X.
Ori Yoran, Samuel Joseph Amouyal, Chaitanya Malaviya, Ben Bogin, Ofir Press, and Jonathan Berant.
AssistantBench: Can web agents solve realistic and time-consuming tasks? In Yaser Al-Onaizan,
Mohit Bansal, and Yun-Nung Chen (eds.), Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing, pp. 8938–8968, Miami, Florida, USA, November 2024. Association for
Computational Linguistics. URL https://aclanthology.org/2024.emnlp-main.505.
Zhenrui Yue, Honglei Zhuang, Aijun Bai, Kai Hui, Rolf Jagerman, Hansi Zeng, Zhen Qin, Dong Wang,
Xuanhui Wang, and Michael Bendersky. Inference scaling for long-context retrieval augmented
generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.04343, 2024.
Aohan Zeng, Mingdao Liu, Rui Lu, Bowen Wang, Xiao Liu, Yuxiao Dong, and Jie Tang. AgentTuning:
Enabling generalized agent abilities for LLMs. In Lun-Wei Ku, Andre Martins, and Vivek Srikumar
(eds.), Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2024, pp. 3053–3077, Bangkok,
Thailand, August 2024. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2024.findings-acl
.181. URL https://aclanthology.org/2024.findings-acl.181.
Chaoyun Zhang, Shilin He, Jiaxu Qian, Bowen Li, Liqun Li, Si Qin, Yu Kang, Minghua Ma, Qingwei
Lin, Saravan Rajmohan, et al. Large language model-brained gui agents: A survey. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2411.18279, 2024a.
Wenqi Zhang, Ke Tang, Hai Wu, Mengna Wang, Yongliang Shen, Guiyang Hou, Zeqi Tan, Peng Li,
Yueting Zhuang, and Weiming Lu. Agent-pro: Learning to evolve via policy-level reflection and
optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.17574, 2024b.
Ziniu Zhang, Shulin Tian, Liangyu Chen, and Ziwei Liu. Mmina: Benchmarking multihop multimodal
internet agents, 2024c. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.09992.
Boyuan Zheng, Boyu Gou, Jihyung Kil, Huan Sun, and Yu Su. Gpt-4v (ision) is a generalist web agent, if
grounded. In Forty-first International Conference on Machine Learning, 2024a.
Boyuan Zheng, Boyu Gou, Scott Salisbury, Zheng Du, Huan Sun, and Yu Su. WebOlympus: An open
platform for web agents on live websites. In Delia Irazu Hernandez Farias, Tom Hope, and Manling
Li (eds.), Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing: System
Demonstrations, pp. 187–197, Miami, Florida, USA, November 2024b. Association for Computational
Linguistics. URL https://aclanthology.org/2024.emnlp-demo.20.

14

Shuyan Zhou, Frank F. Xu, Hao Zhu, Xuhui Zhou, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Xianyi Cheng, Tianyue
Ou, Yonatan Bisk, Daniel Fried, Uri Alon, and Graham Neubig. Webarena: A realistic web environment
for building autonomous agents. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations,
2024a. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=oKn9c6ytLx.
Wangchunshu Zhou, Yuchen Eleanor Jiang, Long Li, Jialong Wu, Tiannan Wang, Shi Qiu, Jintian Zhang,
Jing Chen, Ruipu Wu, Shuai Wang, et al. Agents: An open-source framework for autonomous language
agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.07870, 2023.
Wangchunshu Zhou, Yixin Ou, Shengwei Ding, Long Li, Jialong Wu, Tiannan Wang, Jiamin Chen, Shuai
Wang, Xiaohua Xu, Ningyu Zhang, et al. Symbolic learning enables self-evolving agents. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.18532, 2024b.
Yuqi Zhu, Shuofei Qiao, Yixin Ou, Shumin Deng, Ningyu Zhang, Shiwei Lyu, Yue Shen, Lei Liang, Jinjie
Gu, and Huajun Chen. Knowagent: Knowledge-augmented planning for llm-based agents, 2024. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.03101.

15

A

Limitations and Discussion

We discuss the following limitations:
Dataset Size: Due to the complexity of queries in the web-agent domain, similar to benchmarks such as
AssistantBench (Yoran et al., 2024) (214) and MMIna (Zhang et al., 2024c) (1,050), GAIA (Mialon et al.,
2024) (466), our proposed WebWalkerQA currently comprises 680 high-quality QA pairs. Additionally,
we possess a collection of approximately 14k silver QA pairs, which, although not yet carefully humanverified, can serve as supplementary training data to enhance agent performance, leaving room for
further exploration.
Multimodal Environment: In this work, we only utilize HTML-DOM to parse clickable buttons. In fact,
visual modalities, such as screenshots, can also assist and provide a more intuitive approach (Nguyen
et al., 2024; Zhang et al., 2024a; He et al., 2024b). We leave this for future work.
Agent Tuning: WebWalker is driven by prompting without additional training. We can use agent tuning
to help LLMs learn web traversal. This involves fine-tuning models with golden trajectories, enabling
them to take effective actions for completing information-seeking tasks (Zeng et al., 2024; Chen et al.,
2024b; Zhang et al., 2024b; Qiao et al., 2024; Zhu et al., 2024).
Better Integration with RAG Systems: In §6.2, the root url is provided for the WebWalker to execute.
To better integrate with the RAG system, one approach could be to first rewrite the query within the
RAG system to refine the search, directing it to the query’s official websites likely to contain relevant
information. The WebWalker can then be used to extract useful information. Both the knowledge
retrieved from the RAG system and the information mined by the WebWalker can be combined as
augmented retrieval knowledge for generation, leading to a better result.
WebWalker can function independently as a web information retrieval assistant for a given webpage or
seamlessly integrate with RAG systems to expand their scope. Under the agentic RAG paradigm, the
click
action proves to be highly effective.

B

Implementation Details

In this study, we utilize Qwen-Agent11 as the foundational codebase for building and developing the
baselines proposed WebWalker. The details of LLM hyperparameters for generation are as follows:
top p = 0.8. We sincerely thank the contributors and maintainers of ai4crawl12 for their open-source tool,
which helped us get web pages in a Markdown-like format. We will release the code of WebWalker in
GitHub.

C

Details for RAG Systems

We select five mainstream commercial systems and two open-source systems for evaluation.

C.1

Commercial Systems

Doubao13 , ERNIE-4.0-8K14 , Tongyi, Kimi, and Gemini-Search are all accessed through their businessoriented API interfaces to ensure reproducibility. The detailed configuration of each API can be found in
our codebase.

C.2

Open-sourced Systems

(a) Mindsearch (Chen et al., 2024a) is to mimic the human minds in web information seeking and
integration, which can be instantiated by a multi-agent framework consisting of a WebPlanner and
11 https://github.com/QwenLM/Qwen-Agent
12 https://github.com/unclecode/crawl4ai
13 https://www.volcengine.com/docs/82379/1302004
14 https://cloud.baidu.com/doc/WENXINWORKSHOP/s/clntwmv7t

16

Annotated Data Format
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20

## JSON Format
The keys in the JSON include:
Question, Answer, Root_Url, and Info. The Info field contains
more detailed information, including Hop, Domain, Language,
Difficulty_Level, Source Website, and Golden_Path.
```
{
"Question": "When is the paper submission deadline for the ACL 2025 Industry Track, and what is the venue address for the
conference?",
"Answer": "The paper submission deadline for the ACL 2025 Industry Track is March 21, 2025. The conference will be held in BruneKreisky-Platz 1.",
"Root_Url": "https://2025.aclweb.org/",
"Info":{
"Hop": "multi-source",
"Domain": "Conference",
"Language": "English",
"Difficulty_Level": "Medium",
"Source_Website": ["https://2025.aclweb.org/calls/industry_track/","https://2025.aclweb.org/venue/"],
"Golden_Path": ["root->call>student_research_workshop", "root->venue"]
}
}
```

Figure 8: A JSON-format case in WebWalkerQA.
WebSearcher. (b) Naive RAG built from scratch We use Google to query the relevant terms and
concatenate the information from the Top-10 returned links with the query to provide instructions for the
Qwen-Plus to generate a response.

D

Annotated Case

An annotated case is shown in Figure 8. The WebWalkerQA dataset will be available at
Datasets.

E

Details on Annotation

E.1

Sources of Root Page

HuggingFace

The root page is initially identified through a Google search using keywords such as “conference official
website” or “game official website”, followed by manual filtering. For the education domain, we choose
the official websites of various university computer science departments, closely reflecting real-world
scenarios. The distribution of the domain is shown in Figure 3.

E.2

Details on Prompts for Annotation

The prompts for GPT-4o-based initial annotation are presented below.
Prompts for Multi-source Data Annotation
Question Generate
You are a professional web content analyst. Based on the provided material, construct a query statement:
Sublink 1 URL; Sublink 1 INFO
Sublink 2 URL; Sublink 2 INFO
...
Sublink n URL; Sublink n INFO
### Requirements:
1. **Core Goal of the Query**: Create a multi−step standalone query where the user needs to integrate
information from at least two sublinks to find the final answer. The answer should be a single, clear,
concise, and precise entity.
2. **Relevance of Sublinks**: The selected sublinks must have an intrinsic connection, and the answer
should be derived by combining information from these two sublinks.

17

3. **Logical and Complex**: The constructed query should be as complex and specific as possible,
challenging, and can leverage time, sequence, or commonly mentioned topics to construct a naturally
coherent reasoning process. Avoid questions about browsing history, browsing paths, etc., which have no
practical value.
4. **Accuracy of the Answer**: Ensure the answer is accurate, concise, and closely connected to the logical
chain constructed in the query.
Please return in JSON format, structured as follows:
{
"sublink_reason": "Describe why these specific sublinks were chosen and how they are interrelated.",
"sublinks": ["Selected sublink URL", "Selected sublink URL"],
"reason": "Explain the reason for designing this query and how it encourages the user to engage in
multi−step reasoning.",
"query": "Your query statement",
"answer": "The answer to the query"
}
(*@\textcolor{blue}{
Sublink 1 URL; Sublink 1 INFO \\
Sublink 2 URL; Sublink 2 INFO \\
... \\
Sublink n URL; Sublink n INFO
}@*)
Question-Answer Verify
You will act as a strict judge. You need to evaluate whether the given query can be accurately answered
only by combining the information from two documents (doc1 and doc2) and the provided answer.
Additionally, check if the answer is concise (as an entity or a judgment) and correct.
If the answer is incorrect, can be answered using only one document, or is not concise enough, you should
return false.
If any document (doc1 or doc2) does not contain the necessary key information for the answer and only
provides context for the query, you should return false.
If any document merely provides query background information unrelated to the answer and does not
require combining information from both documents, you should return false.
If the answer is a long answer and not of an entity type, you should return false.
If the query is unnatural, doesn't appear as a complete query, or has a harsh tone, you should return false.
Each question should require combining information from both documents, meaning the answer results
from multi−hop reasoning or multi−step reasoning, and it is concise for you to return true.
You are very strict, and any case failing to meet the above criteria should result in a false. Please return
your result in JSON format as follows:
{
"reason": "Consider each of the conditions above in sequence to assess whether the query and answer
meet the criteria. If they do meet the criteria, list the helpful parts from each doc for answering the
question.",
"decision": 