# FULL TEXT — Clinically Ready Magnetic Microrobots for Targeted Therapies

https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.11553v1

Clinically Ready Magnetic Microrobots for Targeted Therapies
Fabian C. Landers1†, Lukas Hertle1†, Vitaly Pustovalov1†, Derick Sivakumaran1,2†, Oliver
Brinkmann1, Kirstin Meiners3, Pascal Theiler1, Valentin Gantenbein1, Andrea Veciana1, Michael
Mattmann1, Silas Riss1, Simone Gervasoni1,2, Christophe Chautems1, Hao Ye1, Semih Sevim1,
Andreas D. Flouris4, Josep Puigmartí-Luis5,6, Tiago Sotto Mayor7,8, Pedro Alves7,8, Tessa
Lühmann3, Xiangzhong Chen9,10, Nicole Ochsenbein11,12, Ueli Moehrlen12,13, Philipp Gruber14,
Miriam Weisskopf15, Quentin Boehler1, Salvador Pané1*, Bradley J. Nelson1*
† Contributed equally; *Corresponding authors: vidalp@ethz.ch, bnelson@ethz.ch
1

Multi-scale Robotics Laboratory, ETH. Zurich, Tannenstrasse 3, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland

2

Magnebotix AG, Zurich, Switzerland

3

Institute of Pharmacy and Food Chemistry, University of Würzburg, Am Hubland, 97074
Würzburg, (Germany)
4

FAME Laboratory, University of Thessaly, Trikala, 42100, Greece

5

Departament de Ciència dels Materials i Química Física, Institut de Química Teòrica i
Computacional, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain
6

Institució Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avançats (ICREA), Barcelona, Spain

7

Transport Phenomena Research Centre (CEFT), Engineering Faculty, Porto University,
Portugal
8

Associate Laboratory in Chemical Engineering (ALICE), Engineering Faculty, Porto
University, Portugal
9

Institute of Optoelectronics, Shanghai Frontiers Science Research Base of Intelligent
Optoelectronics and Perception, Fudan University, Shanghai 200438, People’s Republic of
China.
10

Yiwu Research Institute of Fudan University, Yiwu 322000, Zhejiang, People’s Republic of
China
11

Department of Obstetrics, University Hospital of Zurich, Rämistrasse 100, Zürich, 8092
Switzerland
12

The Zurich Center for Fetal Diagnosis and Therapy, University of Zurich, Rämistrasse 71,
Zürich, 8092 Switzerland
13

Department of Pediatric Surgery, University Children's Hospital Zurich, Steinwiesstrasse 75,
Zürich, 8092 Switzerland
14

Kantonsspital Aarau AG, Institut für Radiologie/ Abteilung für diagnostische und
interventionelle Radiologie, Tellstrasse 25, CH-5001 Aarau, Switzerland
15

Center for Preclinical Development, University Hospital Zurich, University of Zurich, Zurich,
Switzerland
1

Abstract:
Systemic drug administration often causes off-target effects limiting the efficacy of advanced
therapies. Targeted drug delivery approaches increase local drug concentrations at the diseased
site while minimizing systemic drug exposure. We present a magnetically guided microrobotic
drug delivery system capable of precise navigation under physiological conditions. This platform
integrates a clinical electromagnetic navigation system, a custom-designed release catheter, and a
dissolvable capsule for accurate therapeutic delivery. In vitro tests showed precise navigation in
human vasculature models, and in vivo experiments confirmed tracking under fluoroscopy and
successful navigation in large animal models. The microrobot balances magnetic material
concentration, contrast agent loading, and therapeutic drug capacity, enabling effective hosting of
therapeutics despite the integration complexity of its components, offering a promising solution
for precise targeted drug delivery.
One-Sentence Summary:
A complete microrobot system designed for transport and of targeted drug delivery to specific
sites in the human body is presented.

2

Introduction
Severe side effects are often associated with systemic administration of drug treatments and are
responsible for 30% of drug failures during clinical trials (1, 2). In response to these challenges,
magnetic micro- and nanorobots have been the focus of extensive research over the past two
decades (3–9). These devices hold tremendous potential for targeted drug delivery, offering the
possibility of transporting higher concentrations of therapeutic agents directly to disease sites,
thereby enhancing treatment efficacy and minimizing side effects (10). During this time,
significant advancements have been made in several key areas of microrobotics. Researchers have
developed machines capable of sophisticated locomotion, with some designs mimicking or
utilizing the movement of biological cells and microorganisms (11). These advances have been
enabled by breakthroughs in novel materials (12), fabrication techniques (13), and processing
approaches, which have greatly improved the control and functionality of these robots at micro
and nanoscale levels (14).
Proof-of-concept studies have shown that these devices can be successfully loaded with various
drugs, and early in vivo trials in small animals have validated their efficacy (15–19). In some cases,
these microrobots have been enhanced with contrast agents, allowing for real-time tracking within
the body (20, 21). Despite this progress, the clinical translation of these technologies remains a
significant challenge. A major obstacle is the fragmented nature of current research, where various
aspects—such as locomotion, therapeutic loading, and imaging—have been developed separately
without an integrated solution for clinical use.
For clinical use, microrobot materials must be highly biocompatible and ideally biodegradable to
enable safe clearance from the body without invasive retrieval. Balancing biocompatibility,
biodegradability, and the magnetic properties necessary for actuation presents a substantial
constraint, restricting the overall achievable magnetization.
Another barrier to clinical adoption lies in the tools needed to precisely navigate these robots
within the human body. Generating sufficient magnetic gradient strength for microrobot
navigation across human-scale workspaces presents a considerable challenge, as magnetic field
strength decays with the cube of distance from the source. While several magnetic navigation
systems exist (22–26), most are too small or impractical for clinical settings. Our recent work
introduced the Navion, an electromagnetic navigation system (eMNS) capable of generating
magnetic fields across a clinically relevant workspace (27). For the navigation of mobile
microrobots, precise control over both magnetic fields and gradients is essential due to their
superparamagnetic nature.
For precise navigation and effective therapeutic delivery, real-time tracking is essential. The
microrobot must be visible under clinically available imaging modalities to allow precise
positioning during navigation. Additionally, the microrobot must achieve adequate drug loading
to achieve therapeutic effects within target regions, coupled with a reliable release mechanism.
This paper presents a new type of microrobot that addresses these challenges by offering an
integrated solution to meet the multiple requirements and constraints necessary for clinical
application. Our platform combines a clinical eMNS, a release catheter, and a microrobotic capsule
that acts as a microrobotic drug-carrying reservoir. The microrobot balances magnetic material
concentration, contrast agent loading, and the capacity to carry therapeutic drugs in adequate
concentrations, in which all capsule materials exhibit biocompatible properties and have received
FDA approval for other intravenous applications. We demonstrated the clinical maturity of our
robotic system through in vitro, ex vivo, and in vivo experiments. By addressing these longstanding
3

issues, our work represents a significant step toward the practical deployment of magnetic
microrobots in clinical settings, providing a flexible and scalable solution for advanced medical
interventions.
System Overview

Fig. 1. Magnetically guided microrobot platform for targeted drug delivery. (A) Schematic
of the robotic system within a clinical setup, featuring two electromagnetic navigation units, a
custom-designed microrobot release catheter, and a magnetic microrobot. The microrobot is
composed of a gelatin matrix embedded with zinc-doped iron oxide nanoparticles for magnetic
actuation, tantalum nanoparticles for X-ray visibility, and therapeutic agents. (B) Schematic of
microrobot navigation through the vascular network using magnetic gradient-based guidance. (CE) Schematic of the thrombus dissolution process: (C) Microrobot dissolution is triggered via
hyperthermia at the target site. (D) Initiation of clot lysis. (E) Restoration of vessel perfusion. (FH) Schematic of nanoparticle chain formation and navigation into the microvasculature: (F)
Hyperthermia-triggered microrobot dissolution at the target location. (G) Formation of
nanoparticle chains using rotating magnetic fields. (H) Navigation of nanoparticle chain clusters
into the distal microvasculature.
4

Reliable navigation under diverse physiological flow conditions is essential for achieving targeted
drug delivery within human physiological fluids, such as blood or cerebrospinal fluid. In Fig. 1A,
we conceptually illustrate our developed robotic system within a clinical setting. The system
comprises a hierarchically structured modular arrangement, including two coupled
electromagnetic units, a custom-designed release catheter, and a magnetically guidable untethered
robotic end-effector, which we refer to as a magnetic microrobot or capsule. The modular design
of our drug delivery platform enables seamless integration and adaptability to various clinical
settings, leveraging existing infrastructure (e.g., fluoroscopes) and endoluminal surgery
techniques.
Using a magnetic gradient-based in-flow navigation approach (Fig. 1B), magnetic gradients, or
rotating magnetic fields, our untethered microrobot enables precise navigation within
endovascular areas. The magnetic microrobot consists of a spherical gelatin matrix embedded with
highly responsive magnetic zinc-doped iron oxide nanoparticles, radiopaque tantalum
nanoparticles, and a therapeutic agent (Fig. 1A), all of which have been previously FDA-approved
for various intravenous applications (28–30). This architecture is carefully designed to fulfill the
requirements of magnetic navigation, X-ray trackability, biocompatibility, and biodegradability
while allowing for the loading of therapeutic cargoes with different chemical natures. Through the
application of high-frequency oscillating magnetic fields, iron oxide nanoparticles induce
hyperthermic heating (31, 32), triggering the dissolution of the microrobot and the precise release
of its therapeutic payload (Fig. 1C-F). Once dissolved in low-flow regions, the nanoparticles can
be actuated using rotating magnetic fields, forming dynamic magnetic nanoparticle chains that
effectively transport the therapeutic agents into the distal microvasculature (Fig. 1G-H) (33).

5

Robotic sub-systems

Fig. 2. Robotic sub-systems for targeted drug delivery. (A) Schematic of the electromagnetic
navigation system (eMNS) illustrating the human cranial vasculature within the workspace
generated by the dual Navion system. (B) Achievable magnetic field gradients at 30 mT in the x
and y directions (with the z-direction fixed at the center) across a 20 cm × 20 cm workspace. (C)
Custom release catheter design equipped with a flexible polymeric gripper for controlled
microrobot deployment. (D) Sequential deployment of the microrobot from the catheter within a
silicone vascular model under physiological conditions. (E) Microrobots in water, highlighting
their spherical morphology and magnetic responsiveness. (F) Magnetic hysteresis loop of a
microrobot, demonstrating magnetic properties at varying field strengths. (G) TEM image of
synthesized Zn-substituted iron oxide nanocubes. Scale bar: 50 nm. (H) Optical microscope image
(top left) and bright-field SEM image (bottom left) of a microrobot, with elemental EDX mapping
verifying the presence of Zn-substituted iron oxide, tantalum for radiopacity, and carbon within
the hydrogel matrix (middle and right). Scale bar: 500 µm.
6

We coupled two Navion systems (27), each featuring three electromagnetic coils separated by a
distance of 35 cm to facilitate magnetic manipulation within a workspace large enough to
accommodate a human skull. This double Navion system created heterogeneous magnetic fields
and gradients within a 20 cm x 20 cm x 20 cm workspace (Fig. 2A and 2B), sufficient to
accommodate a patient's head and a C-arm for fluorescent imaging. The system was designed to
generate magnetic field gradients up to 1 T/m for magnetic fields of 30 mT (Fig. 2B).
To deliver the microrobot at the deployment site and avoid untethered navigation through regions
of strong counterflow, our robotic system includes a first-stage release mechanism using a custombuilt release catheter (Fig. 2C and 2D). The design uses a commercial catheter (7 Fr) with an inner
guidewire connected to a flexible polymer gripper. When pushed beyond the outer guiding
catheter, the polymer gripper opens and releases the pre-loaded microrobot (Fig. 2D, fig. S1A-D,
and video S1). The gripper consists of high-density polyethylene (HDPE), meeting the specific
load requirements for intravascular catheters outlined in ISO 10555 (34). Tensile stress testing
demonstrated a maximum tensile load capacity of 16.07 N, aligning with the required peak tensile
force specifications. Additionally, cyclic reliability testing of the flexible gripper tip demonstrated
an elastic recovery of 77 % after ten deployments (fig. S1E).
To fabricate the magnetic capsule (Fig. 2E), we developed a microfluidic manufacturing approach
using a custom-designed 3D flow-focusing chip (fig. S2A–C). This design facilitated the formation
of a stable co-flow between the high-concentration hydrogel-nanoparticle suspension and the
surrounding olive oil and Span® 80 surfactant mixture. Droplets of the hydrogel-nanoparticle
suspension were dispensed into a cooled olive oil bath, enabling rapid hydrogel crosslinking during
free-fall. This process resulted in the production of highly uniform spherical microrobots with
tunable sizes. By adjusting flow rates, microcapsules with an average diameter of 1.69 mm (fig.
S2D–E) were produced, optimized to fit the cranial vessels porcine models.
A sufficient magnetic force must be generated to enable effective maneuverability of the capsules
within the human vasculature. This requires optimization of the scalar product of the magnetic
gradient and the magnetization of the capsule (35). The capsule's magnetization is dependent on
the magnetic susceptibility of the superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles and the strength of
the applied magnetic field. While higher magnetic fields enhance magnetization, they also limit
the maximum achievable gradient. Considering the capabilities of the eMNS and balancing the
magnetic field strength with the achievable magnetic gradients while considering the magnetic
susceptibility of the capsule, a constant magnetic field of 30 mT was selected. The magnetization
of the microrobot reached 72 memu at 30 mT (Fig. 2F), which is sufficient to lift the microrobot
against gravity with the eMNS.
To achieve a high magnetic susceptibility of the capsules, we synthesized highly uniform zincsubstituted iron oxide nanocubes with an average edge length of 18.4 nm ± 1.3 nm, via thermal
decomposition-based synthesis (Fig. 2G and fig. S3A-C) (36, 37). These particles displayed an
inverse spinel structure and excellent hyperthermic heating properties with a specific loss power
(SLP) of 190 W/g (fig. S3D-E). The altered magnetic net spin of the particles resulted in an
enhanced magnetic response at 30 mT and a high magnetic saturation of 96.9 emu/g (fig. S3F-G)
(38). Before preparing the hydrogel-particle stock solution, the particles were functionalized with
nitrodopamine (39), ensuring the formation of a stable colloidal dispersion (fig. S4). EDX mapping
of the capsule confirmed the presence of Zn-substituted iron oxide, tantalum, and carbon within
the capsule matrix (Fig. 2H).
7

Maneuverability, traceability, and functionality of the microrobot

Fig. 3. Capsule propulsion strategies, imaging, and dissolution mechanisms. (A) Blood
velocity map of the human arterial system with site-specific flow velocities indicated. (B)
Microrobot propulsion via rolling along a liquid/solid interface under 10 mT rotating magnetic
fields. (C) Gradient-based propulsion at 30 mT enabling microrobot movement against ambient
flow. (D) In-flow navigation within a Y-shaped bifurcation, utilizing magnetic gradients at 30 mT
to direct the microrobot into the desired branch. (E) Fluoroscopy imaging of microrobots beneath
a porcine head ex vivo. (F) Contrast ratio maps of the microrobot in various regions of the porcine
head, evaluated as a function of tube voltage (kV) and tube current (mA) of the X-ray tube. (G)
Schematic representation of the hyperthermic dissolution process initiated by alternating magnetic
fields at 510 kHz and 20 mT. (K) Thermal imaging showing the progressive heating and
dissolution of the microrobot under high-frequency magnetic stimulation, with complete
dissolution achieved within 40 seconds.
8

Blood velocities within the human arterial system vary drastically depending on the location (Fig.
3A) (40, 41). To assess the maneuverability of the capsule at a 30 mT magnetic field under various
vasculature flow conditions, we investigated three different propulsion approaches.
First, capsule rolling on a liquid/solid interface (e.g., vessel wall) induced by a rotating magnetic
field achieved a peak forward velocity of 0.37 cm/s (Fig. 3B). While this velocity is insufficient
for reliable navigation within the cardiovascular system, it is suitable for navigation within body
regions with low flow velocities, such as the subarachnoid space. The forward velocity of the
microcapsule increased with increasing rotational frequency of the magnetic field up to up to 5
Hz, followed by an intermediate decrease due to capsule bouncing. The forward velocity increased
again for rotational frequencies between 7 and 10 Hz, after which the capsule's step-out frequency
was reached (video S2).
Next, pulling the microrobot induced by magnetic field gradients enabled propulsion against flow
velocities of up to 21.2 cm/s, with an almost linear relationship between the applied magnetic
gradient and the flow velocity (Fig. 3C).
Under physiological conditions the encountered flows are higher than the propulsion exerted by
gradient pulling on the microrobot. Thus, we also employed a navigation strategy where the flow
naturally transports the microrobot. At the same time, the magnetic gradient steers the capsule into
a desired trajectory, for example, a specific branch in the vasculature. We statistically analyzed
this in-flow navigation within a Y-junction (Fig. 3D). The results showed a successful capsule
delivery in more than 95% of the tested cases for flows up to 84 cm/s (video S3). We confirmed
the viability of the in-flow approach through a numerical investigation using a computational fluid
dynamics approach based on the finite-volume method (FVM; Supplementary text 1, figrs. S5-S9,
and Table S1).
The traceability of the microrobot was confirmed through fluoroscopy imaging of the capsule exvivo under a porcine head using a mobile C-arm (Fig. 3E). A systematic contrast examination
demonstrated the expected correlation between the X-ray tube power and the resulting contrast
levels for various background contrast levels (Fig. 3F).
We tested the microrobot's ability to encapsulate different types of drugs despite incorporating
multiple components. Specifically, we evaluated its drug-loading capacity and release profiles
using doxorubicin (DOX) and ciprofloxacin (CIPRO). Additionally, we assessed the system's
compatibility with biologics by incorporating tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA). rtPA displayed
adsorption onto nanoparticles reduced enzymatic activity to 58%. Long-term rtPA stability studies
revealed sufficient preservation of the single-chain form to comply with the European
Pharmacopoeia (Supplemental text 2, fig. S10).
Continuous and slow drug release from the microrobot can be achieved through diffusion, which
can be advantageous for conditions such as tumor treatment. In contrast, rapid, high-concentration
release is preferred for acute therapies like thrombus dissolution. The microrobot's dissolution can
be triggered by external magnetic stimulation, offering two key benefits: (1) control over the drug
delivery rate at the target site and (2) a safety mechanism for immediate dissolution if the
microrobot is navigated to an undesirable location. Under high-frequency magnetic stimulation
(510 kHz at 20 mT), the magnetic nanoparticles incorporated in the microrobot exhibit
hyperthermic heating, which initiates the dissolution of the thermo-responsive gelatin (Fig. 3G-

9

H), and thus the release of the drug. The specific loss power of the particles was determined to be
190 W/g (fig. S3E), enabling rapid microrobot dissolution within 40 seconds.

10

Cytotoxicity evaluation of the microrobot system
The in vitro biocompatibility of the dissolved microrobots and its components were evaluated
through cell viability tests. The cell viability of immortalized endothelial cells (EA.hy926), human
mammary gland adenocarcinoma cells (SK-BR-3), and human embryonic kidney cells (HEK-293)
was assessed at different particle concentrations (fig. S11A-C). To determine the influence of
particle-hydrogel interactions on cell viability, we conducted assessments of the microrobot
formulation (i.e., water 49 wt%, iron oxide 32 wt%, tantalum 28 wt%, gelatin 5 wt%). The viability
of all cell types showed no statistically significant decrease for capsule concentrations up to 0.25
mg/mL compared to control groups. The viability of cells exposed to pure magnetic nanoparticles
showed a notable decrease at lower concentrations, depending on the cell line, indicating a
favorable interaction of gelatin-nanoparticle composites compared to pure nitrodopaminefunctionalized nanoparticles.
The relevance of the developed approach for delivering drugs used for tumor treatment was
assessed by loading DOX into the microrobots and analyzing in vitro cell viability after their
dissolution. Endothelial cells (ECs) exhibited a similar decrease in viability when exposed to the
same amount of pure DOX or DOX from loaded capsules, showing a significant decrease at
concentrations of 0.2 µg/mL, compared to the control group exposed to non-drug-loaded capsules
(fig. S11D-F). SK-BR-3 and HEK-293 cell lines were responsive to higher concentration of DOX
concentrations. Additionally, microrobots were loaded with ciprofloxacin, with no significant
increase in cell viability of SK-BR-3 and HEK-293 cells compared with pure ciprofloxacin. A
decrease in cell viability was detected for ECs for capsule formulation concentrations higher than
0.5 mg/mL (fig. S11G-I).

11

In vitro robotic system evaluation under realistic conditions

Fig. 4. In-flow navigation and targeted drug delivery using microrobots in patient-specific
vascular models. (A-D) Navigation of a microrobot into the anterior cerebral artery (ACA) within
53 ms under a flow velocity of 37 cm/s in the internal carotid artery (ICA), utilizing a constant
magnetic field of 30 mT and gradients up to 350 mT/m. (E-H) Navigation of a microrobot into the
middle cerebral artery (MCA) and MCA M2 inferior trunk within 67 ms, under a flow velocity of
37 cm/s in the ICA, utilizing a constant magnetic field of 30 mT and gradients up to 350 mT/m.
(I-L) Navigation of the microrobot into the MCA and MCA M2 superior trunk within 100 ms,
under a flow velocity of 37 cm/s in the ICA, utilizing a constant magnetic field of 30 mT and
gradients up to 350 mT/m. (M-P) Targeted delivery of an rtPA-loaded microrobot to a human
blood clot occlusion in an MCA model under medium-flow conditions. Thermal dissolution
12

triggered rtPA and nanoparticle release, resulting in clot lysis within 7.5 minutes, with significant
thrombus breakdown within 19 minutes. All Scale bars: 2.5 cm.
We evaluated the system's in-flow navigation capabilities in a three-dimensional silicone vascular
model of a patient developed based on imaging data from magnetic resonance angiography
(MRA). The microrobot was released into the internal carotid artery (ICA) under a flow velocity
of 37 cm/s, typical in adult patients (40). The microrobot was successfully navigated into three
distal vessels of the model's vasculature by utilizing a constant magnetic field of 30 mT and
magnetic gradients up to 350 mT/m, in the desired directions.
First, a microrobot was steered into the anterior cerebral artery (ACA) within 53 ms (Fig. 4A-D).
Next, a microrobot was directed into the Middle Cerebral Artery (MCA) and the MCA M2 inferior
trunk within 67 ms (Fig. 4E-H). Lastly, a microrobot was again steered into the MCA and then
into the MCA M2 superior trunk within 100 ms (Fig. 4I-L) (video S4). For enhanced visibility, we
repeated the navigation of the microrobot in two M2 segments in a smaller model (MCA-aneurysm
model) (video S5).
Targeted delivery of a complex therapeutic agent was demonstrated by guiding a rtPA-loaded
microrobot to a human blood clot occlusion within the MCA model, under low-flow conditions.
Thermal dissolution of the microrobot resulted in the release of rtPA and nanoparticles. Clot lysis
was observed within 7.5 minutes from the release, resulting in most of the thrombus being broken
down or flushed out within 19 minutes (Fig. 5M-P and video S6).
Utilizing a combination of thermal dissolution and low-frequency rotating magnetic fields, we
further demonstrated the system's capability for microvasculature targeting (fig. S12A-D). An
initial stage of localized embolization, utilizing multiple microrobots, effectively reduced the flow
through the microvasculature. Nanoparticle chains were formed by applying low-frequency
rotating magnetic fields, propelling the drug-loaded nanoparticles in- and against-flow-direction
(fig. S12E-H).

13

In vivo robotic system evaluation

Fig. 5. In vivo evaluation of the robotic platform in a clinical setting. (A) Setup for in vivo
experiments using a porcine model. (B-F) Fluoroscopic tracking of the microrobot released in the
common carotid artery (CCA), navigating the cranial arteries within 1233 ms. (G-I) Real-time
tracking of the microrobot within a pre-acquired vascular roadmap using digital subtraction
14

angiography (DSA) at 15 fps. (J) Experimental setup for evaluating microrobot navigation in the
intrathecal space of an ovine model. (K-L) Navigation of microrobots into the fourth ventricle via
the cisterna magna access using rotating magnetic fields. (M-O) Navigation of microrobots into
the fourth ventricle via the cisterna magna access using magnetic gradients.
The clinical feasibility of the robotic platform was systematically evaluated through ex vivo and
in vivo studies. Initially, we assessed the visibility and magnetic responsiveness of the capsules in
an ex vivo model using the vasculature of a human placenta (Fig. S13).
Subsequently, we validated the fluoroscopic trackability of the microrobots in vivo in a porcine
model under clinical conditions (Fig. 5A). Microrobots were released in the common carotid artery
(CCA) and successfully tracked using a standard C-Arm fluoroscope at 30 frames per second (fps)
as they navigated through the cranial arteries (Fig. 5BF, Video S7). Additionally, we demonstrated
real-time tracking of the microrobot within a pre-acquired vascular roadmap using digital
subtraction angiography (DSA) at 15 fps (Fig. 5G-I, Video S7).
To assess microrobot navigation in a complex anatomical region, experiments were conducted in
an ovine model (Fig. 5J). Two microrobots (to enhance visualization of the navigation strategy)
were released into the cisterna magna and magnetically guided into the fourth ventricle using a
combination of rotating magnetic fields (Fig. 5K-L, Video S8) and gradient fields (Fig. 5M-N,
Video S8). These experiments demonstrate the platform’s capability to navigate microrobots
through anatomically complex areas under clinical conditions, offering a minimally invasive
alternative to current state-of-the-art surgical techniques.
Discussion
Our findings demonstrate the feasibility of navigating microrobots in vivo within large animal
models under clinical conditions, marking an important step toward the clinical translation of
microrobotic platforms. By integrating navigation, therapeutic delivery, and imaging into a unified
system, this work addresses several of the longstanding challenges in the field of microrobotics.
The use of materials that have been FDA-approved for other intravenous applications, coupled
with the modular design of the robotic platform, ensures translatability and adaptability to a range
of clinical workflows, providing a foundation for future applications in minimally invasive
medicine.
Targeted drug delivery offers a promising alternative to systemic administration by enabling
localized therapeutic administration, reducing off-target effects, and potentially improving
treatment efficacy. Our system demonstrated precise navigation of microrobots under realistic
physiological conditions, effective drug loading and release mechanisms, and compatibility with
standard imaging modalities. These features suggest that microrobots could be employed in a
variety of therapeutic contexts, including the treatment of vascular occlusions, localized infections,
or tumors.
The successful in vivo visualization and manipulation in porcine and ovine models represents a
significant milestone for microrobotic drug delivery, as this is the first time that microrobots have
been demonstrated to operate effectively within a clinically relevant workspace and flow
environment. Additionally, targeted thrombolytic therapy in an in vitro vascular occlusion model
highlights the potential for using microrobots in acute interventions, such as ischemic stroke
treatment. Our experiments in an ovine model further validate the platform’s ability to navigate
15

through anatomically complex regions, such as the central nervous system, where conventional
surgical approaches are highly invasive.
Future efforts should prioritize long-term safety studies, scalability, and the development of
automated navigation algorithms to minimize operator dependency and enhance the system's
clinical applicability.
In summary, this study establishes a new benchmark for microrobotic systems, showcasing their
potential for precise, minimally invasive therapeutic interventions. While significant work remains
to fully translate this technology into clinical practice, our results provide a robust framework for
addressing the complex challenges associated with targeted drug delivery.

16

References
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.

21.
22.
23.

A. Mullard, Parsing clinical success rates. Nat Rev Drug Discov 15, 447 (2016).
D. Sun, W. Gao, H. Hu, S. Zhou, Why 90% of clinical drug development fails and how to improve it? Acta
Pharm Sin B 12, 3049–3062 (2022).
B. J. Nelson, S. Pané, Delivering drugs with microrobots. Science (1979) 382, 1120–1123 (2023).
J. Llacer-Wintle, A. Rivas-Dapena, X. Z. Chen, E. Pellicer, B. J. Nelson, J. Puigmartí-Luis, S. Pané,
Biodegradable Small-Scale Swimmers for Biomedical Applications. Advanced Materials 33, 1–22 (2021).
X. Z. Chen, B. Jang, D. Ahmed, C. Hu, C. De Marco, M. Hoop, F. Mushtaq, B. J. Nelson, S. Pané, SmallScale Machines Driven by External Power Sources. Advanced Materials 30, 1–22 (2018).
R. Cheng, W. Huang, L. Huang, B. Yang, L. Mao, K. Jin, Q. Zhuge, Y. Zhao, Acceleration of tissue
plasminogen activator-mediated thrombolysis by magnetically powered nanomotors. ACS Nano 8, 7746–
7754 (2014).
H. Zhang, Z. Zhao, S. Sun, S. Zhang, Y. Wang, X. Zhang, J. Sun, Z. He, S. Zhang, C. Luo, Molecularly self‐
fueled nano-penetrator for nonpharmaceutical treatment of thrombosis and ischemic stroke. Nat Commun 14
(2023).
T. Li, S. Yu, B. Sun, Y. Li, X. Wang, Y. Pan, C. Song, Y. Ren, Z. Zhang, K. T. V. Grattan, Z. Wu, J. Zhao,
Bioinspired claw-engaged and biolubricated swimming microrobots creating active retention in blood
vessels. Sci Adv 9, 1–16 (2023).
B. J. Nelson, I. K. Kaliakatsos, J. J. Abbott, Microrobots for minimally invasive medicine. Annu Rev Biomed
Eng 12, 55–85 (2010).
Q. Wang, K. F. Chan, K. Schweizer, X. Du, D. Jin, S. C. H. Yu, B. J. Nelson, L. Zhang, Ultrasound
Doppler-guided real-time navigation of a magnetic microswarm for active endovascular delivery. Sci Adv 7,
1–12 (2021).
T. Gwisai, N. Mirkhani, M. G. Christiansen, T. T. Nguyen, V. Ling, S. Schuerle, Magnetic torque-driven
living microrobots for increased tumor infiltration. Sci Robot 7, 1–15 (2022).
F. Soto, E. Karshalev, F. Zhang, B. Esteban Fernandez de Avila, A. Nourhani, J. Wang, Smart Materials for
Microrobots. Chem Rev 122, 5365–5403 (2022).
C. Yang, X. Liu, X. Song, L. Zhang, Design and batch fabrication of anisotropic microparticles toward
small-scale robots using microfluidics: recent advances. Lab Chip, 4514–4535 (2024).
C. Chen, S. Ding, J. Wang, Materials consideration for the design, fabrication and operation of microscale
robots. Nat Rev Mater 9, 159–172 (2024).
F. Zhang, J. Zhuang, Z. Li, H. Gong, B. E. F. de Ávila, Y. Duan, Q. Zhang, J. Zhou, L. Yin, E. Karshalev,
W. Gao, V. Nizet, R. H. Fang, L. Zhang, J. Wang, Nanoparticle-modified microrobots for in vivo antibiotic
delivery to treat acute bacterial pneumonia. Nat Mater 21, 1324–1332 (2022).
Z. Li, Y. Duan, F. Zhang, H. Luan, W. T. Shen, Y. Yu, N. Xian, Z. Guo, E. Zhang, L. Yin, R. H. Fang, W.
Gao, L. Zhang, J. Wang, Biohybrid microrobots regulate colonic cytokines and the epithelium barrier in
inflammatory bowel disease. Sci Robot 9 (2024).
V. Du Nguyen, H. K. Min, H. Y. Kim, J. Han, Y. H. Choi, C. S. Kim, J. O. Park, E. Choi, Primary
Macrophage-Based Microrobots: An Effective Tumor Therapy in Vivo by Dual-Targeting Function and
Near-Infrared-Triggered Drug Release. ACS Nano 15, 8492–8506 (2021).
M. Yang, Y. Zhang, F. Mou, C. Cao, L. Yu, Z. Li, J. Guan, Swarming magnetic nanorobots bio-interfaced
by heparinoid-polymer brushes for in vivo safe synergistic thrombolysis. Sci Adv 9, 1–17 (2023).
J. Law, X. Wang, M. Luo, L. Xin, X. Du, W. Dou, T. Wang, G. Shan, Y. Wang, P. Song, X. Huang, J. Yu,
Y. Sun, Microrobotic swarms for selective embolization. Sci Adv 8 (2022).
G. Go, A. Yoo, K. T. Nguyen, M. Nan, B. A. Darmawan, S. Zheng, B. Kang, C. S. Kim, D. Bang, S. Lee, K.
P. Kim, S. S. Kang, K. M. Shim, S. E. Kim, S. Bang, D. H. Kim, J. O. Park, E. Choi, Multifunctional
microrobot with real-time visualization and magnetic resonance imaging for chemoembolization therapy of
liver cancer. Sci Adv 8, 1–19 (2022).
S. Martel, J. B. Mathieu, O. Felfoul, A. Chanu, E. Aboussouan, S. Tamaz, P. Pouponneau, L. Yahia, G.
Beaudoin, G. Soulez, M. Mankiewicz, Automatic navigation of an untethered device in the artery of a living
animal using a conventional clinical magnetic resonance imaging system. Appl Phys Lett 90 (2007).
S. Schuerle, S. Erni, M. Flink, B. E. Kratochvil, B. J. Nelson, Three-dimensional magnetic manipulation of
micro-and nanostructures for applications in life sciences. IEEE Trans Magn 49, 321–330 (2013).
M. P. Kummer, J. J. Abbott, B. E. Kratochvil, R. Borer, A. Sengul, B. J. Nelson, Octomag: An
electromagnetic system for 5-DOF wireless micromanipulation. IEEE Transactions on Robotics 26, 1006–
1017 (2010).
17

24.
25.
26.
27.

28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.

34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.

44.
45.

F. Niu, W. Ma, H. K. Chu, H. Ji, J. Yang, D. Sun, An electromagnetic system for magnetic microbead’s
manipulation. 2015 IEEE International Conference on Mechatronics and Automation, ICMA 2015, 1005–
1010 (2015).
A. Chah, T. Kroubi, K. Belharet, A new electromagnetic actuation system with a highly accessible
workspace for microrobot manipulation. IEEE/ASME International Conference on Advanced Intelligent
Mechatronics, AIM 2020-July, 723–728 (2020).
W. Amokrane, K. Belharet, M. Souissi, A. B. Grayeli, A. Ferreira, Macro–micromanipulation platform for
inner ear drug delivery. Rob Auton Syst 107, 10–19 (2018).
S. Gervasoni, N. Pedrini, T. Rifai, C. Fischer, F. C. Landers, M. Mattmann, R. Dreyfus, S. Viviani, A.
Veciana, E. Masina, B. Aktas, J. Puigmartí-Luis, C. Chautems, S. Pané, Q. Boehler, P. Gruber, B. J. Nelson,
A Human-Scale Clinically Ready Electromagnetic Navigation System for Magnetically Responsive
Biomaterials and Medical Devices. Advanced Materials 36, 1–20 (2024).
FDA, FERAHEME® (ferumoxytol injection), for intravenous use Initial U.S. Approval: 2009 (2009).
https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/label/2022/022180s025lbl.pdf.
FDA, Inactive Ingredients in Approved Drug Products (Database) (2024).
MTI, FDA, Onyx® Liquid Embolic System (2003).
https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/cdrh_docs/pdf3/P030004c.pdf.
C. Pucci, A. Degl’Innocenti, M. Belenli Gümüş, G. Ciofani, Superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles for
magnetic hyperthermia: recent advancements, molecular effects, and future directions in the omics era.
Biomater Sci 10, 2103–2121 (2022).
R. R. Shah, T. P. Davis, A. L. Glover, D. E. Nikles, C. S. Brazel, Impact of magnetic field parameters and
iron oxide nanoparticle properties on heat generation for use in magnetic hyperthermia. J Magn Magn Mater
387, 96–106 (2015).
B. Wang, Q. Wang, K. F. Chan, Z. Ning, Q. Wang, F. Ji, H. Yang, S. Jiang, Z. Zhang, B. Y. Ming Ip, H. Ko,
J. P. W. Chung, M. Qiu, J. Han, P. W. Y. Chiu, J. J. Y. Sung, S. Du, T. W. H. Leung, S. C. Ho Yu, L.
Zhang, tPA-anchored nanorobots for in vivo arterial recanalization at submillimeter-scale segments. Sci Adv
10, 1–19 (2024).
ISO, “ISO 10555-1” (2023).
J. J. Abbott, K. E. Peyer, M. C. Lagomarsino, L. Zhang, L. Dong, I. K. Kaliakatsos, B. J. Nelson, How
should microrobots swim? International Journal of Robotics Research 28, 1434–1447 (2009).
J. Muro-Cruces, A. G. Roca, A. Loṕez-Ortega, E. Fantechi, D. del-Pozo-Bueno, S. Estradé, F. Peiro, B.
Sepúlveda, F. Pineider, C. Sangregorio, J. Nogues, Precise Size Control of the Growth of Fe3O4 Nanocubes
over a Wide Size Range Using a Rationally Designed One-Pot Synthesis. ACS Nano 13, 7716–7728 (2019).
J. Park, K. An, Y. Hwang, J. E. G. Park, H. J. Noh, J. Y. Kim, J. H. Park, N. M. Hwang, T. Hyeon, Ultralarge-scale syntheses of monodisperse nanocrystals. Nat Mater 3, 891–895 (2004).
J. T. Jang, H. Nah, J. H. Lee, S. H. Moon, M. G. Kim, J. Cheon, Critical enhancements of MRI contrast and
hyperthermic effects by dopant-controlled magnetic nanoparticles. Angewandte Chemie - International
Edition 48, 1234–1238 (2009).
R. Zirbs, A. Lassenberger, I. Vonderhaid, S. Kurzhals, E. Reimhult, Melt-grafting for the synthesis of coreshell nanoparticles with ultra-high dispersant density. Nanoscale 7, 11216–11225 (2015).
W. Sorteberg, K. F. Lindegaard, K. Rootwelt, A. Dahl, D. Russell, R. Nyberg-Hansen, H. Nornes, Blood
velocity and regional blood flow in defined cerebral artery systems. Acta Neurochir (Wien) 97, 47–52
(1989).
K. W. Stock, S. G. Wetzel, P. A. Lyrer, E. W. Radü, Quantification of blood flow in the middle cerebral
artery with phase-contrast MR imaging. Eur Radiol 10, 1795–1800 (2000).
R. Zirbs, A. Lassenberger, I. Vonderhaid, S. Kurzhals, E. Reimhult, Melt-grafting for the synthesis of coreshell nanoparticles with ultra-high dispersant density. Nanoscale 7, 11216–11225 (2015).
L. Hertle, S. Sevim, J. Zhu, V. Pustovalov, A. Veciana, J. Llacer-Wintle, F. C. Landers, H. Ye, X.-Z. Chen,
H. Vogler, U. Grossniklaus, J. Puigmartí-Luis, B. J. Nelson, S. Pané, A Naturally Inspired Extrusion-Based
Microfluidic Approach for Manufacturing Tailorable Magnetic Soft Continuum Microrobotic Devices.
Advanced Materials n/a, 2402309.
K. Meiners, P. Hamm, M. Gutmann, J. Niedens, A. Nowak-Król, S. Pané, T. Lühmann, Site-specific
PEGylation of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator. European Journal of Pharmaceutics and
Biopharmaceutics 192, 79–87 (2023).
E. Pharmacopoeia, D. Alteplase, P. Alteplase, ALTEPLASE FOR INJECTION Alteplasum ad iniectabile.
1145–1149 (2008).
18

46.

47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.

S. Gervasoni, N. Pedrini, T. Rifai, C. Fischer, F. C. Landers, M. Mattmann, R. Dreyfus, S. Viviani, A.
Veciana, E. Masina, B. Aktas, J. Puigmartí-Luis, C. Chautems, S. Pané, Q. Boehler, P. Gruber, B. J. Nelson,
A Human-Scale Clinically Ready Electromagnetic Navigation System for Magnetically Responsive
Biomaterials and Medical Devices. Advanced Materials 36, 1–20 (2024).
R. Bhaskaran, L. Collins, Introduction to CFD basics. Cornell University-Sibley School of Mechanical and
Aerospace Engineering, 1–21 (2002).
A. Sayma, Computational Fluid Dynamics (Sayma & Ventus Publishing, 2009).
J. H. Ferziger, M. Perić, Computational Methods for Fluid Dynamics (Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin,
Heidelberg, 2002).
R. B. Langtry, F. R. Menter, Correlation-based transition modeling for unstructured parallelized
computational fluid dynamics codes. AIAA Journal 47, 2894–2906 (2009).
F. R. Menter, R. Langtry, S. Völker, Transition Modelling for General Purpose CFD Codes. Flow Turbul
Combust 77, 277–303 (2006).
R. W. Fox, A. T. McDonald, J. W. Mitchell, Fox and McDonald’s Introduction to Fluid Mechanics (John
Wiley & Sons, Inc., ed. 8th, 2006).
C. T. Crowe, J. D. Schwarzkopf, M. Sommerfeld, Y. Tsuji, Multiphase Flows with Droplets and Particles
(Taylor & Francis Group, Second., 2012).
“Motion of Particles in Fluids” in Solid-Liquid Two Phase Flow (2008), pp. 245–289.
P. G. Alves, M. Pinto, R. Moreira, D. Sivakumaran, F. Landers, R. Santiago Herrera, M. Guix, B. J. Nelson,
A. D. Flouris, S. Pané, J. Puigmartí-Luis, T. S. Mayor, Numerical analysis on the navigation of magnetic
microrobots in cerebral bifurcation models for targeted drug delivery. Pending publication.
P. E. Roach, D. H. Brierley, The influence of a turbulent free stream on zero pressure gradient transitional
boundary layer development. Part I: Test Cases T3A and T3B. Simulation of Unsteady and Transition to
Turbulence, 319–347 (1992).

19

Acknowledgments:
This project has received funding from the European Union's Horizon 2020 Proactive Open
program under grant agreement No 952152. This work was also supported by the Swiss National
Science Foundation through grant number 200020_212885, and the ITC-InnoHK grant 16312.
The authors acknowledge the support of the FIRST Center for Micro- and Nanoscience and the
Scientific Center for Electron Microscopy (ScopeM) of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
(ETHZ).
Conflict of interests
C.C. and B.J.N. are co-founders of NanoFlex Robotics AG. B.J.N. is a co-founder of
Magnebotix AG. F.C.L., O.B., P.T., S.P., and B.J.N. are co-founders of Swiss Vascular GmbH

20

Supplementary Material
Clinically Ready Magnetic Microrobots for Targeted Therapies
Fabian C. Landers1†, Lukas Hertle1†, Vitaly Pustovalov1†, Derick Sivakumaran1,2†, Oliver Brinkmann1,
Kirstin Meiners3, Pascal Theiler1, Valentin Gantenbein1, Andrea Veciana1, Michael Mattmann1, Silas Riss1,
Simone Gervasoni1,2, Christophe Chautems1, Hao Ye1, Semih Sevim1, Andreas D. Flouris4, Josep PuigmartíLuis5,6, Tiago Sotto Mayor7,8, Pedro Alves7,8, Tessa Lühmann3, Xiangzhong Chen9,10, Nicole Ochsenbein11,12,
Ueli Moehrlen12,13, Philipp Gruber14, Miriam Weisskopf15, Quentin Boehler1, Salvador Pané1*, Bradley J.
Nelson1*
† Contributed equally; *Corresponding authors: vidalp@ethz.ch, bnelson@ethz.ch
1

Multi-scale Robotics Laboratory, ETH. Zurich, Tannenstrasse 3, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland

2

Magnebotix AG, Zurich, Switzerland

3

Institute of Pharmacy and Food Chemistry, University of Würzburg, Am Hubland, 97074 Würzburg,
(Germany)
4

FAME Laboratory, University of Thessaly, Trikala, 42100, Greece

5

Departament de Ciència dels Materials i Química Física, Institut de Química Teòrica i Computacional,
University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain
6

Institució Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avançats (ICREA), Barcelona, Spain

7

Transport Phenomena Research Centre (CEFT), Engineering Faculty, Porto University, Portugal

8

Associate Laboratory in Chemical Engineering (ALICE), Engineering Faculty, Porto University, Portugal

9

Institute of Optoelectronics, Shanghai Frontiers Science Research Base of Intelligent Optoelectronics and
Perception, Fudan University, Shanghai 200438, People’s Republic of China.
10

Yiwu Research Institute of Fudan University, Yiwu 322000, Zhejiang, People’s Republic of China

11

Department of Obstetrics, University Hospital of Zurich, Rämistrasse 100, Zürich, 8092 Switzerland

12

The Zurich Center for Fetal Diagnosis and Therapy, University of Zurich, Rämistrasse 71, Zürich, 8092
Switzerland
13

Department of Pediatric Surgery, University Children's Hospital Zurich, Steinwiesstrasse 75, Zürich, 8092
Switzerland
14

Kantonsspital Aarau AG, Institut für Radiologie/ Abteilung für diagnostische und interventionelle
Radiologie, Tellstrasse 25, CH-5001 Aarau, Switzerland
15

Center for Preclinical Development, University Hospital Zurich, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland

21

Materials and Methods
Synthesis of Nitrodopamine Nitrodopamine hydrogensulfate was synthesized following a previously reported
protocol.(42) In short, 21 mmol of dopamine hydrochloride (Sigma Aldrich) was dissolved in 120 mL de-ionized
water before adding 72.4 mmol sodium nitrite (Sigma Alrich) and cooling the mixture to 0°C. Following, 40 ml of 20
vol/vol% of sulfuric acid (Sigma Aldrich) were added dropwise under constant stirring. After addition, the reaction
was allowed to proceed at room temperature for 16 hours. The resulting yellow crude product was collected by vacuum
filtration and washed multiple times with de-ionized water (4 °C). Finally, the resulting nitrodopamine
hydrogensulfate was collected, dried under a high vacuum, and stored at 4 °C for further use.
Synthesis of zinc ferrite nanoparticles Cubic zinc-substituted iron oxide nanoparticles were synthesized via a
previously established thermal-decomposition protocol with multiple modifications.(43) In a typical synthesis, first
1.52 mmol of iron(III) acetylacetonate (Thermo Fisher Scientific), 0.23 mmol of zinc(II) acetylacetonate (Sigma
Aldrich), and 1.31 mmol of sodium oleate (Tokyo Chemical Company) were dissolved in a mixture of 7 ml benzyl
ether (Thermo Fisher Scientific), 15 ml of 1-octadecene (Sigma Aldrich), 3 ml of tetradecene (Sigma Aldrich), and
5.25 mmol of oleic acid (Sigma Aldrich). The mixture was then transferred into a three-bottle neck flask equipped
with a thermocouple and reflux condenser before being degassed at 60 °C for 60 minutes. Afterwards the solution was
heated to reflux at 294 °C (3°C min-1) under a constant N2 flow at which it was kept for 90 minutes. The resulting
particle containing crude product was eventually cool to room temperature before collection and stored under N2 at 20 °C for further processing.
Ligand modifications of nanoparticles Ligand exchange of oleic acid-covered nanoparticles with nitrodopamine: To
achieve high colloidal stability of the particles in aqueous media, a single-step ligand exchange with nitrodopamine
was undertaken following a previously established procedure with small adjustments.(42) As-synthesized particles
were first purified by multiple sequential redispersion and sedimentation processes. First, 240 ml of particle-containing
stock solution was mixed with 240 ml of chloroform (Sigma Aldrich) and 720 ml of acetone (Sigma Aldrich), followed
by sedimentation via centrifugation. Next, the particles were washed three times by redispersing them in 250 ml
chloroform (Sigma Aldrich) and sedimentation after adding 750 ml of a 50:50 vol:vol methanol (Sigma Aldrich) and
acetone (Sigma Aldrich) solution. Finally, the particles were washed again with a mixture of 250 ml chloroform and
750 ml acetone (Sigma Aldrich) before redispersion in 40 ml THF anhydrous (Sigma Aldrich). Ligand exchange with
nitrodopamine was subsequently undertaken by dissolving 400 mg of nitrodopamine in 10 dry dimethylformamide
(DMF) (Sigma Aldrich) before adding 30 ml of THF anhydrous (Sigma Aldrich) within a nitrogen-filled glovebox.
Next, the solution was heated to 40 °C before dropwise addition of 40 ml particle-containing THF under vigorous
stirring. The ligand exchange was allowed to proceed for 4 hours under inert conditions before sedimentation of
particles functionalized with nitrodopamine in 500 ml of cold acetone (Sigma Aldrich). Functionalized particles were
washed four times by redispersion and centrifugation in 400 ml methanol (Sigma Aldrich) and four times by
redispersion and sedimentation in 400 ml de-oxygenated de-ionized water before collection. Nitrodopamine
functionalization of tantalum nanoparticles: Commercial Ta nanoparticles (tantalum powder, 500 nm – 1 µm,
GoodFellow) were functionalized with nitrodopamine by dissolving 50 mg nitrodopamine in 50 ml de-oxygenated deionized water containing 500 mg of Ta particles. The solution was subsequently sonicated for 1 hour, allowed to stand
at room temperature for 16 hours, and sonicated once more for 1 hour before particle sedimentation in 200 ml cold
acetone (Sigma Aldrich). Nitrodopamine-functionalized particles were washed four times in 200 ml of methanol
(Sigma Aldrich) and four times in 200 ml de-oxygenated de-ionized water before collection.
Microscopy
Light Microscopy: Microscope images of millimeter- and micrometer-sized structures were obtained with a
KEYENCE VHX-X1 optical microscope (Keyence International).
Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM): SEM images were recorded with a Zeiss ULTRA 66 (Carls Zeiss GmbH)
operating at 5 kV. EDX mapping analysis was undertaken with a 60 µm aperture and 10 mm working distance at 20
kV.
Transmission electron Microscopy (TEM): TEM, scanning TEM, and EDX of nanoparticles were undertaken with an
FEI Talos F200X (Chem S/TEM) (Thermo Fisher Scientific) operating at 200 kV. Samples were prepared by dropcasting diluted particle dispersions on a carbon-coated Cu TEM grid (400 mesh) (1824, Ted Pella).
Structural analysis
22

Fourier Transform Microscopy (FTIR): Spectra of samples were recorded with a Bruker Tensor 27 spectrometer
(Bruker Corp.) across a range from 4000-400 cm-1 with a resolution of 4 cm-1.
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) Spectroscopy: 1H-NMR spectra were collected by a 400 MHz Bruker Advance
Ultrashield (Bruker Corp.), using DMSO-d6 as solvent.
Thermogravimetric Analysis (TGA): Thermogravimetric measurements on dry samples were taken with a Metter
Toledo TGA/DSC 3+ Star up (Mettler-Toledo) under a steady O2 flow of 60 ml min-1 from 30°C to 900°C (10°C min1
).
X-ray Diffraction (XRD) analysis: The crystal structure of nanoparticle powders was derived with a Malvern
Panalytical Empyrean diffractometer (Malvern Panalytical GmbH) equipped with a copper X-ray source (λ = 1.5406
Å) and a PIXcel detector. Measurements were carried out within the range of 4° ≤ 2θ ≤ 80° with a step size of 0.04°
and a sweeping rate of 0.2 sec per step. Using the Scherrer equation, crystallite sizes were calculated from the main
Bragg peak with the highest intensity.
Direct Light Scattering (DLS) & ζ Potential measurements: Hydrodynamic diameters and zeta potentials of diluted
particle dispersions in de-ionized water were measured with a Malvern Panalytical Zetasizer Nano ZS (Malvern
Panalytical GmbH) at 25°C.
Specific Loss Power (SLP) measurements: Heating capacities of diluted dispersions of phase-transferred nanoparticles
were evaluated under AC magnetic field stimulation at 510 kHz and 20 mT (NAN201003 Magnetherm, nanoTherics
𝑪 𝒅𝑻
Ltd.). SLP values were calculated from recorded temperature curves using the formula 𝑺𝑳𝑷 = 𝒎 𝒅𝒕 , in which 𝑪 refers
to the heat capacity of water per unit volume (4.184 J K-1 mL-1), 𝒎 to the concentration of nanoparticles per volume
𝒅𝑻
water (g mL-1) and 𝒅𝒕 is the experientially recorded temperature change per unit time (°C sec-1).
Magnetic characterization Symmetric magnetic hysteresis loops were measured for nanoparticles and capsules over
the field ranges of 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, and 2 T at 300 K, using a vibrating sample magnetometer (VSM EZ9, Microsense).
Nanoparticle samples were prepared by drop casting highly concentrated dispersions of oleic acid respectively
nitrodopamine-functionalized particles onto a round filter-paper substrate (Ø: 8mm) and drying under a high vacuum
for 48 hours. Normalization to magnetization per gram of zinc ferrite was undertaken by accounting for organic weight
percentage loss determined via TGA.
3D microfluidic chip fabrication Polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) tubes with an inner diameter of 0.8 mm and an outer
diameter of 1.6 mm (Schlauch PTFE 0.8x1.6 mm, Semadeni) were placed on a 18 G blunt-end Luer-lock dispensing
needles (Stainless Steel Dispensing Needles with Luer Lock Connection, McMaster-Carr) and inside a 3D printed
(Phrozen Sonic mini 8K resin printer, Prozen Aqua 8K resin) rectangular mold. Next, polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS,
Sylgard 184, Dow Croning) was filled into the mold, degassed under vacuum, and cured for 2 hours at 80 °C. After
cooling to room temperature, 3D microfluidic chips were cut out of the mold, and the PTFE tube was removed. An
additional access to the chip was punched perpendicularly to the dispensing needle using a 1.5 mm microfluidic punch
(Rapid-Core Microfluidic Punch, 1.5 mm, Darwin Microfluidics). Lastly, the dispensing needle was removed from
the chip and replaced with an 18 G blunt-end lure lock needle (Blunt-end Luer Lock Syringe Needles, 18 G, Darwin
Microfluidics).
Fabrication of magnetic capsule microrobots A magnetic hydrogel formulation comprising 5 wt% gelatin, 37 wt%
nitrodopamine-functionalized magnetic nanoparticles, and 16 wt% nitrodopamine-functionalized Ta nanoparticles
was prepared by dispersing the respective amounts of the individual components within 1ml of de-ionized water at 55
°C under a combination of mechanical stirring and ultrasound. The hydrogel formulation and olive oil (Sigma Aldrich)
with 2 % Span-80 (Sigma Aldrich) were loaded into 5 ml and 10 ml glass syringes, respectively. Next, the syringes
were loaded into a syringe pump (Nemesis, Cetoni GmbH) and heated to 55 °C via syringe heating pads (New Era).
The outlets of the syringes were connected to the 3D microfluidic chip, and a hydrogel/oil co-flow was achieved by
pumping the olive oil at a flow rate of 200 µl/min and the hydrogel at 100 µl/min. A PVC tubing (inner diameter 1
mm, outer diameter 2 mm, McMaster Carr) was connected to the 3D microfluidic chip. The droplets forming at the
outlet were collected in a cooled (4 °C) olive oil bath. After fabrication, the capsules were cooled down in the oil bath
for 15 minutes and were transferred to a fridge (5 °C) for at least 12 hours. Optionally, the capsules were dried in air
for two hours and stored at 5°C.
Fabrica