# FULL TEXT — Humanoid Locomotion and Manipulation: Current Progress and Challenges in Control, Planning, and Learning

https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.02116v2

Humanoid Locomotion and Manipulation: Current Progress and Challenges in Control, Planning, and Learning *co-corresponding authors 

 I Introduction 
 
 I-A Survey Roadmap 
 I-B Survey Contributions 

 II Background 
 
 II-A Bipedal Locomotion 
 II-B Bipedal Navigation 
 II-C Whole-body Manipulation 
 II-D Loco-manipulation 

 III Tactile Sensing 
 
 III-A Tactile Sensing on Hands 
 III-B Tactile Sensing on Feet 
 III-C Whole-body Tactile Sensing 
 III-D Challenges in Tactile Sensing 

 IV Multi-Contact Planning for Humanoids 
 
 IV-A Search-based Contact Planning 
 IV-B Optimization-based Contact Planning 
 IV-C Learning-based Contact Planning 
 IV-D Challenges in Multi-contact Planning 

 V Model Predictive Control for Loco-manipulation 
 
 V-A Simplified Models 
 V-B Whole-body Models 
 V-C Mixed-fidelity Models 
 V-D NMPC Speed-up 
 
 V-E Environment and Object Interaction Models for Loco-manipulation 
 
 V-E 1 Interaction with a static environment 
 V-E 2 Modeling interaction with a manipulated object 
 V-E 3 Interaction with a dynamic environment or deformable objects 

 VI Whole-body control 
 
 VI-A WBC Dynamic Tasks 
 VI-B WBC in Closed Form 
 VI-C WBC through Optimization 
 
 VI-D WBC for Loco-manipulation 
 
 VI-D 1 Interaction as an External Wrench 
 VI-D 2 Interaction as a Unified Robot-Object Model 

 VI-E Challenges in Numerical Optimization 

 VII Learning Loco-Manipulation Skills 

 VII-A Skill Learning: Reinforcement Learning from Scratch 
 
 VII-A 1 Comparison Between RL Algorithms 
 VII-A 2 Improving Learning Efficiency 
 VII-A 3 Addressing the Sim-to-real Gap 

 VII-B Skill Learning: Imitation from Robot Experience 
 
 VII-B 1 Obtaining Robot Experience Data 
 VII-B 2 Approaches to Learning from Robot Experience Data 

 VII-C Skill Learning: Imitation from Human Data 
 
 VII-C 1 Obtaining Human Data 
 VII-C 2 Challenges in Learning from Human Data 
 VII-C 3 Approaches to Learning from Human Data 

 VII-D Skill Learning: Hybrid Methods 
 
 VII-D 1 Combining Pure RL and IL 
 VII-D 2 Learning to Track Trajectory Reference 
 VII-D 3 Learning to Augment Trajectory Reference 

 VII-E Representation and Composition for Versatile Skills 
 
 VII-E 1 Motion Representation 
 VII-E 2 Goal Representation 
 VII-E 3 State Transition Representation 

 VII-F Learning for Humanoid Loco-manipulation 
 VII-G Challenge in Lack of Benchmarks for Loco-manipulation 
 VII-H Challenge in Data Scarcity 

 VIII Foundation Models for Humanoid Robots 

 VIII-A Applying LLMs/VLMs to Humanoid Robots 
 
 VIII-A 1 FMs for selecting low-level skills (task planning) 
 VIII-A 2 FMs for authoring low-level skills 

 VIII-B Building Humanoid Foundation Models 
 
 VIII-B 1 Hierarchical vision-language-conditioned policy 
 VIII-B 2 End-to-end Vision-Language-Action model 

 VIII-C Opportunities and Challenges in Foundation Models 

 IX Additional Discussions 
 
 IX-A Model-based Methods Versus Learning-based Methods 
 IX-B Hardware Limitations for Humanoid Robots 
 IX-C The Future Applications and Challenges
of Humanoid Robots in the Society 

 X Conclusion 

 Humanoid Locomotion and Manipulation: Current Progress and Challenges in Control, Planning, and Learning
 † † thanks: *co-corresponding authors 

 Zhaoyuan Gu
 
 Georgia Institute of Technology

 Junheng Li
 
 The University of Southern California

 Wenlan Shen
 
 Technische Universität München

 Wenhao Yu
 
 Google DeepMind

 Zhaoming Xie
 
 The AI Institute

 Stephen McCrory
 
 The Institute for Human and Machine Cognition

 Xianyi Cheng
 
 Duke University

 Abdulaziz Shamsah
 
 Georgia Institute of Technology
 
 Kuwait University

 Robert Griffin
 
 The Institute for Human and Machine Cognition

 C. Karen Liu
 
 Stanford University

 Abderrahmane Kheddar
 
 CNRS-University of Montpellier LIRMM
 
 CNRS-AIST Joint Robotics Laboratory

 Xue Bin Peng
 
 Simon Fraser University

 Yuke Zhu
 
 The University of Texas at Austin
 
 NVIDIA

 Guanya Shi
 
 Carnegie Mellon University

 Quan Nguyen
 
 The University of Southern California

 Gordon Cheng
 
 Technische Universität München

 Huijun Gao
 
 Harbin Institute of Technology

 Ye Zhao
 
 Georgia Institute of Technology

 Abstract 
 Humanoid robots hold great potential to perform various human-level skills, involving unified locomotion and manipulation in real-world settings.
Driven by advances in machine learning and the strength of existing model-based approaches, these capabilities have progressed rapidly, but often separately.
This survey offers a comprehensive overview of the state-of-the-art in humanoid locomotion and manipulation (HLM), with a focus on control, planning, and learning methods.
We first review the model-based methods that have been the backbone of humanoid robotics for the past three decades. We discuss contact planning, motion planning, and whole-body control, highlighting the trade-offs between model fidelity and computational efficiency. Then the focus is shifted to examine emerging learning-based methods, with an emphasis on reinforcement and imitation learning that enhance the robustness and versatility of loco-manipulation skills. Furthermore, we assess the potential of integrating foundation models with humanoid embodiments to enable the development of generalist humanoid agents. This survey also highlights the emerging role of tactile sensing, particularly whole-body tactile feedback, as a crucial modality for handling contact-rich interactions. Finally, we compare the strengths and limitations of model-based and learning-based paradigms from multiple perspectives, such as robustness, computational efficiency, versatility, and generalizability, and suggest potential solutions to existing challenges. 

 Index Terms: 
Humanoid robotics, Loco-manipulation, Model predictive control, Whole-body control, Imitation learning, Foundation models, and Whole-body tactile sensing.

 I Introduction 

 Figure 1: 
Humanoids executing locomotion and manipulation tasks:
(a) HRP-4 wipes a wood board while adapting to terrain  [ 1 ] ;
(b-g) Object pick and place by Digit, Hector  [ 2 ] , Atlas,
H1, TORO   [ 3 ] , and Apollo; (h) iCub pushes a cart  [ 4 ] ;
(i) Nadia opens a door  [ 5 ] ;
(j-k) Object manipulation by Figure 02 and Optimus;
(l) MIT humanoid whole-body push recovery  [ 6 ] .

 A humanoid robot refers to any anthropomorphic robot that resembles the form of a human  [ 7 ] . Typically, a humanoid robot possesses a torso, two arms, and two legs, though the degree of anthropomorphism may vary. For instance, some humanoid robots feature simple hands or wheeled legs  [ 8 ] . The primary focus of this review is on humanoid robots that replicate human morphologies and functionalities, rather than those that closely mimic human-like visual appearance and external aesthetics. 
 Specifically, this survey examines bipedal humanoid robots, with an emphasis on the whole-body motion of humanoid robots instead of on the dexterous manipulation of multi-finger hands. 

 Humanoid robots are well suited for executing human-level tasks, as they are built to (ideally) replicate human motions and achieve various whole-body loco-manipulation tasks, e.g. , applications ranging from manufacturing to services, as shown in Fig.  1 . Their anthropomorphism makes them stand out from other robot forms in performing human-like tasks, such as payload carrying over stairs, especially in environments designed for humans. Furthermore, humanoid robots can interact with humans for physical collaboration tasks, such as collaboratively moving a large table upstairs with human assistance. However, simultaneously achieving these intricate tasks while addressing highly complex robot dynamics is still challenging, let alone safe physical collaborations with humans and/or operations in unstructured environments.
As a promising direction to solve this problem, humanoids can exploit the abundance of data collected from humans to quickly acquire motor and cognitive skills due to their human-like morphology.
Therefore, scaling human data and computational resources for humanoid embodiment is potentially a fast route to embodied intelligence. 

 Embodied intelligence at large is thriving at an unprecedented pace. Perception algorithms can detect, classify, and segment a wide variety of objects in real time. Model-based methods that leverage both predictive and reactive control have enabled agile and reliable locomotion and manipulation. Meanwhile, deep learning policies have demonstrated convincing control results on robot hardware through exploration and imitation. Large foundation models trained on massive, internet-scale datasets are beginning to show cognitive capabilities of open-world reasoning. Consequently, the building of autonomous humanoid robots for real-world applications has become possible, leading to the emergence of many humanoid robot companies and concrete deployment applications. Especially, companies with powerful GPU-based parallelization capabilities, such as NVIDIA, and companies building physical humanoid robots, such as Boston Dynamics, Tesla, and Figure, have begun collaboration on the embodied intelligence of humanoid robots. 

 Figure 2: This survey begins by defining relevant concepts of humanoid robots and their locomotion and manipulation capabilities. Centered around achieving humanoid loco-manipulation tasks, the core of this survey delves into two main categories of methods: the traditional planning and control approaches, such as contact planning, motion planning, and control, as well as the emerging learning-based approaches, including skill learning and foundation models. In addition, this survey highlights whole-body tactile sensing as a crucial modality to achieve contact-rich loco-manipulation. 

 Acknowledging the rapid advancements in humanoid robotics, this article reviews recent developments in Humanoid Locomotion and Manipulation (HLM). As laid out in Fig.  2 , humanoid robotics is a multidisciplinary field that spans domains in design, actuation, sensing, control, planning, and decision-making. In this survey, we mainly examine task planning, motion planning, policy learning, and control from the perspective of model-based and learning-based methods. We first synthesize traditional model-based methods for planning and control. Then, we shift our focus to more recent learning-based approaches, especially those leveraging reinforcement learning, imitation learning, and foundation models. 

 Model-based methods serve as the cornerstone for enabling HLM capabilities. These methods depend critically on physical models, which can significantly influence the quality, speed, and guarantees of motion generation and control. Over the past decade, planning and control techniques have shown a trend of converging to the predictive-reactive control hierarchy, employing a whole-body model predictive controller (MPC) or simplified model (centroidal dynamics) MPC coupled with local task-space Whole-Body Controllers (WBC)  [ 9 ] . These planning and control techniques are usually formulated as Optimal Control Problems (OCPs) that are solved by off-the-shelf or customized numerical solvers. Although these numerical optimization methods are well-established, research continues to focus on enhancing their computational efficiency, numerical stability, robustness, and scalability for high-dimensional systems. 

 Learning-based approaches have witnessed a rapid surge in humanoid robotics and achieved impressive results that attract an increasing number of researchers to the field. Among the diverse learning approaches, Reinforcement Learning (RL) has proven its ability to achieve robust motor skills. However, despite its ability to discover novel behaviors via trial and error, pure RL without demonstration data is often prohibitively inefficient for HLM tasks, which are characterized by high degrees-of-freedom robots and sparse reward settings. Therefore, sim-to-real RL, where training is conducted in simulation before transferring to the physical robot, has become a prevalent method, though it faces the challenge of bridging sim-to-real gaps. From the existing literature, we observe that sim-to-real RL has gained significant traction for achieving humanoid whole-body motion. There is an ongoing debate between model-based and learning-based control, and therefore we highlight two key points: (1) sim-to-real RL that relies on the accurate dynamics models in a simulator can also be viewed as a “model-based,” method, even though the RL algorithm itself does not explicitly model the dynamics; and (2) model-based control and sim-to-real RL do not conflict; on the contrary, they often complement each other and can be combined to achieve a better performance than either method alone. 

 Imitation learning (IL) from expert demonstrations has proven to be an efficient method of acquiring motor skills. IL techniques, such as behavior cloning  [ 10 ] , have shown impressive abilities to mimic a wide range of skills. In pursuit of versatile and generalizable policies through IL, many researchers and companies have focused on scaling data. While robot experience data can be diverse and high-quality, its acquisition is both expensive and time-consuming. Thus, learning from human data, which is abundant and readily available from Internet videos and public datasets, emerges as a pivotal strategy for humanoid robotics. Learning from humans is a unique advantage exclusive to humanoid robots. However, even though humanoid robots may attain human-level motor skills, a deeper question of embodied intelligence persists: how to learn the intentions (source) behind human actions rather than merely replicating the observed motions (outcome). It is hypothesized that understanding human intention is achieved via Foundation Models (FMs) that are capable of semantic interpretation of the environment and the task. This hypothesis motivates us to include FMs as a part of our survey. 

 The remarkable success of FMs has sparked a surge in general robotics research, as highlighted by several comprehensive surveys  [ 11 , 12 ] . This paper surveys the application of FMs specifically for humanoid robots.
FMs offer a promising solution to the persistent challenge of generalizability in robotics by efficiently harnessing internet-scale datasets to acquire extensive knowledge. A pre-trained FM exhibits capabilities for open-world reasoning and multimodal semantic understanding. These capabilities are invaluable for robots engaged in complex environments requiring long-term, logically coherent task planning. Within the realm of humanoid robots, FMs have been successfully implemented as task planning modules in hierarchical planning and control frameworks.
Training end-to-end FMs for humanoid applications is an emerging area, poised for significant future advancements. 

 I-A Survey Roadmap 

 For the selection criteria of papers cited in this survey, we prioritize topics most relevant to humanoid loco-manipulation capabilities, including tactile sensing [ 13 ] , model-based planning  [ 14 ] and control  [ 9 ] , as well as learning-based methods such as RL  [ 15 , 16 ] , IL  [ 17 , 18 ] , and FMs  [ 12 , 11 ] . Distinct from survey papers on these topics, our paper aims to present a broad overview with a focus on humanoid loco-manipulation. 

 Each of these topics has extensive studies. For each topic, we aim to spotlight three categories of papers: (i) foundational studies that established key principles in these areas, (ii) recent works representing the state of the art, and (iii) survey papers for further reading. Our survey spans 30 years of research. Specifically, model-based planning and control papers have been collected since 1990, and learning-based methods predominantly span the past 20 years. 

 Compared with existing survey reviews on humanoid robotics  [ 7 , 19 ] , this survey collects up-to-date papers and introduces in detail the new paradigm of learning-based methods. 

 As shown in Fig.  2 , this survey is organized in the following order. We first establish the background, defining humanoid robots and the key capability of locomotion and manipulation in Sec.  II . We detail whole-body tactile sensing in Sec.  III .
We then present traditional approaches that achieve loco-manipulation, including contact planning (Sec.  IV ), motion planning (Sec.  V ), and control (Sec.  VI ). 

 We then examine the state-of-the-art learning-based algorithms. In Sec.  VII , we explore approaches using reinforcement learning and imitation learning to acquire loco-manipulation skills. In Sec.  VIII , we discuss how foundation models have become the backbone of semantic understanding and decision-making for effective humanoid task planning.
Finally, we highlight significant challenges in this field and present our perspectives on potential future research directions and emerging opportunities in Sec.  IX . 

 I-B Survey Contributions 

 We summarize our core contributions as follows: 

 • 
 
 The survey serves as an effective resource for graduate students and researchers new to the field, offering a comprehensive review of humanoid technical methods, while also providing perspectives for humanoid experts in academia and industry with the latest advancements. 

 • 
 
 We advance the understanding of loco-manipulation in bipedal humanoid robots by clearly defining the problem, surveying state-of-the-art methods and capabilities, and outlining remaining challenges along with promising solutions. 

 • 
 
 We provide a clear comparison between model-based and learning-based methods, and their corresponding loco-manipulation skills achieved on humanoid robots. This comparison offers valuable insights for researchers deciding their methods.

 II Background 

 In this section, we focus on the humanoid robot’s main capabilities: bipedal locomotion and whole-body manipulation. Finally, we detail the combined loco-manipulation skills with the state-of-the-art methods and current challenges. 

 II-A Bipedal Locomotion 

 Bipedal locomotion is a significant characteristic of humanoid robots. Therefore, in the past three decades, bipedal locomotion has been a prolific field of humanoid research.
Interested readers can refer to the excellent reviews (most of which are recent)  [ 20 , 21 , 22 ] , and the monographs  [ 23 , 24 ] .
In summary, model-based bipedal locomotion has evolved significantly, progressing from passive walking  [ 25 , 26 ] to quasi-static walking  [ 27 ] , and then to dynamic walking [ 23 ] . Bipedal walking on flat surfaces has been well explored and mastered through periodic motions with model-based methods  [ 23 , 28 ] . These approaches have also expanded to more agile motions such as jumping [ 29 , 30 ] and back-flipping [ 31 ] . 

 Bipedal locomotion under external perturbations and force loads has been extensively studied. Such capabilities lay the foundation for simultaneous locomotion and manipulation, the focus of this survey. Model-based methods are among the early works that demonstrate these capabilities. For example,   [ 32 ] introduced a passivity-based controller with task space dynamics that treats external forces as part of the robot’s generalized forces. [ 2 ] incorporated a payload into a simplified rigid body model to enable dynamic walking while carrying a load, and [ 33 ] integrated external forces into a simplified linear inverted pendulum model. 

 In addition to model-based methods, bipedal locomotion has also been successfully addressed by learning-based methods  [ 34 , 35 , 36 ] , particularly in the context of periodic motions on flat surfaces. Furthermore, learning-based approaches have also demonstrated capabilities in more complex settings, such as running  [ 37 ] , jumping  [ 38 ] , and handling non-periodic motions such as stair climbing  [ 39 ] and parkour  [ 40 ] . Similar to the trend in model-based methods, learning-based methods have further extended their capabilities to handle external forces and payloads  [ 41 , 42 ] . 

 Researchers have explored energy efficiency in bipedal locomotion by examining the Cost of Transport (COT), which designates energy expenditure per unit distance traveled, normalized by body weight. Early work in passive dynamic walking [ 25 , 26 ] achieved higher efficiency than humans but offered limited versatility. Meanwhile, today’s humanoid robots ( COT 0.7 ) COT 0.7 (\text{COT} 0.7) ( COT 0.7 ) are significantly less efficient than humans ( COT = 0.2 ) COT 0.2 (\text{COT}=0.2) ( COT = 0.2 ) [ 43 ] . Therefore, efficient walking continues to motivate hardware designs that incorporate passive-compliant components for energy storage [ 44 , 45 ] and control algorithms that exploit the system’s natural dynamics [ 46 , 47 ] . 

 II-B Bipedal Navigation 

 Proficiency in bipedal locomotion has naturally progressed to humanoid robots’ ability to effectively navigate complex environments, including indoor and outdoor areas with uneven terrain and dynamic obstacles. A navigation stack often incorporates a hierarchical structure: a global path planner and a local step planner. The global path planner  [ 48 , 49 , 50 , 51 , 52 ] is typically responsible for understanding the overall navigation task and generating a path that avoids obstacles and reaches the target location. On the other hand, local step planners, e.g.,   [ 53 , 54 , 55 ] focus on determining the precise foot placements that adhere to the bipedal dynamics within the immediate surroundings of the robot while also tracking the global path. 

 From the aforementioned navigation stack, bipedal navigation capabilities have progressed from static obstacle avoidance on flat terrain  [ 56 ] to more challenging scenarios, including locomotion through height-constrained space  [ 51 , 57 ] , avoiding dynamic obstacles in a constrained environment  [ 58 ] , navigating dynamic social environments using reachable sets  [ 59 ] , or deep RL that incorporates the perceived pedestrian emotions into the navigation plan  [ 60 ] , and traversing rough terrains  [ 48 , 50 , 61 , 49 , 62 , 63 ] .
A persistent challenge for these methods is that they are tailored to specific use case scenarios and lack the versatility to handle a wide range of different situations. 

 While bipedal locomotion and navigation have been widely studied, real-world deployment remains a significant challenge due to inherent uncertainties. Uncertainty can arise from the environment and the robot model. Real-world environments have uneven, varying terrain, dynamic obstacles, and occlusion, making it difficult to ensure the safety and robustness of bipedal navigation. On the other hand, model uncertainty arises from discrepancies in the mathematical representation of the robot model and the physical system. Model uncertainty also exists in most current navigation frameworks that employ reduced-ordered models at the high level for collision avoidance and goal-reaching tasks and a full-order model at the low level for tracking high-level commands. A coupled framework that considers both the navigation task and whole-body control stability and accuracy is under-explored. Although previous works have addressed various aspects of environment uncertainties  [ 64 ] and model uncertainties  [ 65 ] , a comprehensive navigation stack capable of handling the full spectrum of real-world uncertainties is still essential. 

 II-C Whole-body Manipulation 

 Anthropomorphic manipulation has been the inspiration for bimanual manipulation  [ 66 ] , loco-manipulation, and dexterous manipulation  [ 67 ] . The ultimate form of anthropomorphic manipulation is whole-body manipulation, referring to the ability to manipulate objects using any part of one’s body. For example, humans use their elbows or hips to hold a door open for convenience; humans use their palms or fists instead of fingertips to provide large forces; humans curl their little fingers to hold a small object while still using other fingers for manipulation. In comparison, most robots often have predefined end-effectors, such as foot soles or fingertips, as the only parts allowed to physically interact with the world.
Whole-body manipulation is a grand problem that shares challenges in bimanual manipulation, loco-manipulation, and dexterous manipulation.
This general ability has yet to be developed, but its emergence will indicate a breakthrough for robotic manipulation. 

 The idea of whole-body manipulation was originally studied in the whole-arm manipulation community  [ 68 ] . Whole arm manipulators were designed and built to explore the benefit of manipulating objects with all surfaces of a robot manipulator  [ 69 ] .
This brings a unique challenge that manifests itself in all the system levels in perception, estimation, planning, and control.
Since there are an infinite number of such contacts, the planning complexity suffers from the combinatorial explosion of contact modes  [ 70 ] and exponential computational costs from the high degree of freedom of the system  [ 66 ] . 

 Numerous breakthroughs in mechanical design, control, and planning have been achieved in the endeavor to address the challenges of whole-body manipulation.
On the mechanical design side, robots made with soft materials and full-body sensing, such as Punyo  [ 71 ] , provide whole-body manipulation capability in a built-in manner. 

 For control, the coordinative and contact-rich nature requires forceful and compliant control. Traditionally, robot arms were hard-coded to switch across different control strategies according to task requirements  [ 66 ] .
Different task requirements, such as reaching a point or wiping a table, require different control strategies, such as pure position control or hybrid force position control.
However, it is still unclear how to define and enumerate the control strategies for whole-body manipulation. In addition, a general control framework that can take in the sensor data, perform state estimation, and reactively control each body contact has yet to exist  [ 72 ] . Such general frameworks require innovations in advanced hardware and algorithm architecture, including whole-body sensing  [ 73 ] and robot designs with compliance and force control capabilities for reactive manipulation  [ 74 ] . 

 From the planning perspective, the challenge of whole-body manipulation can be potentially alleviated via human behavior imitation algorithms  [ 75 , 76 , 77 ] . Most of these works focus on simple manipulation strategies such as whole-body grasping and pushing. To enable the robot to mimic more complex human whole-body manipulation behaviors, it is important to address the cross-morphology gap between humans and humanoids. 

 To achieve humanoid whole-body manipulation, full-stack system integration at all system levels is crucial. In the future, we expect to see hardware advances in whole-body sensing, compliant materials, and force-transparent mechanism design. Significant improvements on the algorithm side will also be needed. While classical planning and control approaches suffer from huge complexity issues, pure learning methods lack the flexibility to react to contacts and adapt to different tasks. We foresee that the solution will be an integrated approach, which combines the strength of both. Ultimately, this could lead to more complex, human-like capabilities in humanoid robots, merging improved control, adaptive learning, and comprehensive sensing. Furthermore, addressing the core issues in loco-manipulation will also shed light on whole-body manipulation, as both areas involve handling complex, contact-rich interactions on different body parts. 

 II-D Loco-manipulation 

 TABLE I: Taxonomy of Whole-body Locomotion and Manipulation 

 (a) Whole-body 

 Manipulation 

 (b) Whole-body 

 Loco-manipulation 

 (c) Loco- 

 manipulation 

 Object movement 

 (Manipulation) 

 ✓ 
 ✓ 
 ✓ 

 Robot self mobility 

 (Locomotion) 

 ✗ 
 ✓ 
 ✓ 

 All surface interaction 

 (Whole-body) 

 ✓ 
 ✓ 
 ✗ 

 Figure 3: (a) Whole-body manipulation exemplified by human and humanoid Justin [ 78 ] interacting with objects using all surfaces. (c) Loco-manipulation involves simultaneous locomotion and manipulation, as shown in the collaborative tasks performed by humans and a humanoid [ 33 ] . (b) Whole-body loco-manipulation is an intersection of (a) and (c), as exemplified by a human and a humanoid HRP-4 [ 79 ] pushing heavy objects using their legs and arms. 

 One of the key features of humanoid robots is their ability to simultaneously perform locomotion and manipulation (abbreviated as loco-manipulation hereafter) tasks.
As suggested by its name, loco-manipulation involves both the movement of objects through manipulation and the mobility of the robot itself through locomotion. In a more general case of whole-body loco-manipulation, the whole-body refers to the use of all body surfaces to interact with the environment. We summarize the relationship between loco-manipulation, and whole-body manipulation in Table I.
Both whole-body manipulation and loco-manipulation highlight the importance of utilizing physical contact.
As shown in Fig.  3 , loco-manipulation considers the movement of the robot itself while it manipulates an object, whereas whole-body manipulation emphasizes leveraging all accessible robot contact surfaces, such as using the chest as extra support to move large objects. 

 Loco-manipulation capability has been widely demonstrated on quadruped robots, specifically those achieving loco-manipulation capability by using their limbs as manipulators  [ 80 , 81 , 82 ] . For quadrupeds with upper-body manipulators, whole-body control is widely adopted for pick and place tasks from the model-based  [ 83 , 84 ] and learning-based community  [ 85 , 86 ] . 

 Loco-manipulation for humanoid robots is particularly challenging, compared with quadrupeds. Humanoid robots have a smaller support region on the ground and a higher center of mass, which is challenging for dynamic balance. Therefore, early humanoid frameworks focus on separate control for locomotion and manipulation. For example, in locomotion tasks, most studies constrain the upper body to remain upright, which simplifies the whole-body problem to a bipedal locomotion problem that considers only the low er limbs. Conversely, in most table-top manipulation tasks, the lower body of the humanoid remains stationary [ 87 , 88 ] . In such cases, any external force exerted on the upper body is treated as a disturbance to the legs, whose goal is to solely maintain balance. On the contrary, in  [ 1 ] , there is no such categorization of contacts: all contacts contribute simultaneously to achieve the task and balance. 

 Humanoid loco-manipulation requires a holistic and strategic use of the entire body to explore the humanoid’s full behavioral capability space. Additionally, whole-body loco-manipulation needs to schedule contact for all limbs to simultaneously achieve robust movement and safe object interaction. Acquiring this technique unlocks a broad range of useful tasks such as opening doors  [ 89 , 90 ] , pushing trolleys  [ 91 , 92 ] , rolling large bobbins  [ 93 ] , or climbing ladders  [ 94 , 95 ] . 

 III Tactile Sensing 

 Humanoid locomotion and manipulation involve extensive physical interactions with the environment and objects, requiring multimodal sensing for understanding the environment, tracking manipulated objects, and evaluating how contact impacts the balance of both the robot and the objects.
Visual sensors have shown effectiveness in object tracking and simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM)  [ 93 ] , while proprioceptive sensors are usually combined to estimate contact information in contact-rich tasks  [ 89 ] . These sensory modalities have been widely adopted in existing systems and have been thoroughly reviewed in the literature  [ 19 ] . 

 In contrast, tactile sensing, despite being uniquely suited for capturing detailed contact information critical for both locomotion and manipulation, has received relatively limited attention in existing humanoid literature. This survey specifically highlights tactile sensing to address this gap and to underscore its complementary role alongside other sensing modalities in humanoid systems. 

 Mimicking the human sense of touch, tactile sensing provides more accurate and comprehensive contact information over large areas of robot skin compared to proprioceptive sensors  [ 96 ] , and allows the robot to perceive complex environments and assess object properties through physical interactions, especially in scenarios where vision is occluded  [ 97 ] . Additionally, tactile sensing can be used to estimate contact-based object properties such as roughness, texture, and weight, complementing traditional visual information such as location, shape, and color  [ 98 ] . A combination of tactile with other sensory modalities can significantly enhance humanoid perception capabilities in solving complex loco-manipulation tasks. 

 Numerous studies have developed tactile sensors based on various transduction principles that can sense normal and tangential forces, vibration, temperature, and pre-contact proximity information. Comparative studies of various sensor designs can be found in  [ 13 , 99 , 100 ] . This survey instead focuses on their application in humanoid loco-manipulation, categorized into three areas: (i) tactile sensing on hands, (ii) tactile sensing on foot soles, and (iii) whole-body tactile sensing. The following sections review recent advancements in each domain, emphasizing their roles in balancing control, scheduling contacts, and enhancing interaction capabilities, as illustrated in Fig.  4 and Table  II . 

 TABLE II: Roles and challenges of tactile sensing in locomotion and manipulation applications 

 Application 
 Roles of Tactile Sensing 
 Body Region Involved 
 Challenges 
 Solutions 

 Manipulation 

 • Grasping force and stability regulation 

 [ 101 , 102 , 103 , 104 ] 

 • Object property and state estimation 

 [ 105 , 106 , 107 ] 

 • Contact dynamics estimation 

 [ 108 , 109 ] 

 • Input modality for RL/IL/FM training 

 [ 110 , 111 , 112 , 113 , 114 ] 

 • Hand (in IHM ∗ ) 

 • Whole-body (in WHM ∗ ) 

 • High-dimensional 

 contact space 

 • Tactile physics simulation 

 • Sim-to-real transfer 

 • Dimensionality reduction 

 [ 115 , 116 , 111 ] 

 • Tactile simulators 

 [ 117 , 118 , 119 ] 

 Locomotion 

 • GRF and support region estimation 

 [ 120 ] 

 • Terrain property recognition 

 [ 121 , 122 ] 

 • Feet 

 • Sensor durability against 

 heavy weight and various 

 terrains 

 • Durable materials 

 and mechanical design 

 [ 120 , 121 , 122 ] 

 Loco-manipulation 

 • All of above 

 • Unified locomotion and manipulation 

 planning 

 • Whole-body 

 • All of Above 

 • Real-time contact 

 reasoning and adaptation 

 • To be explored 

 ∗ IHM - In-hand Manipulation ;   WBM - Whole-body Manipulation . 

 Figure 4: Tactile sensing on humanoid robots, exemplified by (a) REEM-C fully covered with artificial skin [ 73 ] (image copyright: A. Eckert), which cover three body regions: hand, feet, and the whole body. (i) Hand tactile sensors demonstrated by (b) Shadow-Dexterous-Hand equipped with tactile sensors on palm and fingertips  [ 111 ] , (c) Allegro Hand equipped with DIGIT sensors  [ 109 ] , and (d) BioTac  [ 123 ] tactile sensors for dexterous manipulation; (ii) Tactile sensors on foot soles for (e) obstacle recognition [ 120 ] and (f) terrain classification [ 121 ] ; (iii) Whole-body tactile sensors for (g) whole-body manipulation by Punyo-1 [ 71 ] and whole-body human-robot interaction by (h) iCub  [ 124 ] and (i) REEM-C [ 125 , 126 ] 

 III-A Tactile Sensing on Hands 

 Tactile sensors on dexterous hands provide contact information, addressing the challenges in object manipulation such as grasped object controllability and object property estimation. In this subsection, we survey studies that integrate tactile perception into the control, planning, and learning of complex manipulation tasks. Due to the similar nature of contact-rich interactions, the tactile sensing techniques on hands also offer valuable insights for whole-body tactile sensing and manipulation, which is discussed in Sec.  III-C . 

 To achieve the grasping objectives, sensed contact forces serve as real-time feedback in force or impedance control loops to regulate the desired object behavior  [ 101 ] . Moreover, slip detection and prediction based on tactile sensor data are used to adapt grasping forces, thereby enhancing grasp stability  [ 103 , 102 , 127 ] . 

 More complex in-hand manipulation tasks demand interactive perception beyond static object models. Dynamic contact information, including real-time tracking of object states, monitoring contact stability  [ 106 ] , and predicting interaction outcomes  [ 108 , 109 ] , i.e. , how contact forces affect the balance of both objects and the robot, are crucial to achieving complex interactive behaviors.
However, due to the inherent complexity of multi-contact dynamics and increased dimensionality of the contact state space, model-based methods still struggle to match human-level dexterity and versatility in multi-finger manipulation.

 Alternatively, model-free Reinforcement Learning (RL) has shown the ability to address complex contact interactions. These approaches integrate tactile measurements directly into the state space to train end-to-end policies  [ 110 , 111 ] .
Other learning methods besides task-specific RL have been sought for more generalizable policies.  [ 112 ] employs diffusion policy to achieve complex and long-horizon bi-manual manipulation tasks, while recent work has integrated tactile sensing into foundation models alongside vision and language  [ 113 , 114 ] . Though limited to simple control tasks, these models may eventually enable more natural and versatile physical interactions in humanoid robots. 

 Advancing robot hands with tactile sensing for humanoid tasks requires addressing the dual demands of high dexterity for delicate manipulation and high payload capacity for heavy object lifting. While human hands naturally achieve this balance, most robotic hands prioritize dexterity but support limited payloads.
In the short term, swappable modular hands tailored to specific tasks are practical, but the long-term goal should be a unified hand combining both capabilities. A promising approach involves multimodal sensing modules, integrating sensors optimized for different force ranges and resolutions.
Progress in sensor design, material science, sensor fusion, and high-fidelity simulation is critical to this effort.

 III-B Tactile Sensing on Feet 

 Other than manipulation, tactile sensing has started to gain traction for locomotion problems. For legged locomotion, estimation of Ground Reaction Forces (GRFs) and terrain properties is critical for maintaining whole-body stability on diverse, uneven surfaces. While vision and proprioception sensors can provide an indirect estimation of the terrain, these sensing modules lack the capability of accurately estimating GRFs and various terrain properties.
Tactile sensing on foot soles has the potential to provide direct, unobstructed, and accurate contact measurements, but remains largely underexplored. 

 To measure GRFs, existing works use Force/Torque sensors mounted on ankles  [ 128 , 129 ] or load-cell sensors for point-wise measurement  [ 130 ] . However, such methods inform only the zero moment point and lack accurate information on contact patch location, force distribution, and detailed terrain properties. To obtain such information, contact sensing arrays  [ 122 ] and multimodal sensing suites [ 131 , 121 , 132 ] have been integrated into legged robotic systems for diverse contact information. 

 To date, tactile sensors for legged systems have been primarily developed for monopods, quadrupeds, and hexapods. Only a few studies have built tactile feet sensors for humanoid robots, with applications such as terrain classification  [ 121 ] and ground slope recognition  [ 122 ] . The sensed tactile information should aid the humanoid control and enhance the locomotion performance. A notable work in this direction  [ 120 ] reconstructs the pressure shape of the foothold, enabling the recognition of uneven terrain and footstep replanning in real time. 

 Building tactile sensors for humanoid feet is more challenging due to larger impulse and shear force during intermittent ground contact caused by fewer legs and heavier robot weight. Another challenge lies in developing robust and reliable sensors capable of withstanding various terrains, prompting researchers to seek durable materials and dependable mechanical designs. In addition, humanoids have stricter requirements for system integration. For example, the computing and power units of an adult-size humanoid robot are potentially more distal from the foot.

 To enable robust humanoid locomotion in the wild, future directions for tactile sensing of feet need to address the following challenges: (i) how to accurately estimate more terrain properties such as stiffness, damping, plasticity, heterogeneity, and porosity; (ii) what are the appropriate metrics to measure the level of terrain complexity such as density, height, slickness, and roughness ( e.g. , size and wavelength of rocks in terrain), and the effect induced by weather and lighting conditions ( e.g. , rainy, snowy, sunny, night); and (iii) how to fuse terrain tactile sensing with other conventional sensing modules such as proprioception and visual perception to jointly inform postures, speeds, and gaits for intelligent, terrain-aware locomotion. 

 III-C Whole-body Tactile Sensing 

 Whole-body tactile sensing extends the aforementioned single-body sensing to all parts of the body, enabling humanoid robots to interact with unknown environments not only by the fingertips or foot soles but also by the arms, legs, and torso. 

 With explicit tactile feedback, humanoid robots such as iCub and REEM-C have achieved whole-body compliance  [ 133 , 125 ] , controlling the contact force from whole-body regions. This level of contact awareness facilitates safe and intuitive physical human-robot interactions including dancing with human  [ 126 ] . Contact awareness is also useful for improving balance and collision avoidance in unstructured environments. 

 Large-area tactile sensing significantly enhances a robot’s ability to handle large objects, including object identification through tactile exploration and whole-body manipulation. For example,  [ 107 ] enables a humanoid robot NAO, covered with artificial skin over its entire upper body, to classify large, heavy objects with different weights and textures.  [ 97 ] demonstrates whole-arm tactile sensing by reaching objects in cluttered spaces while regulating contact forces across its arms. Close-proximity whole-body capacitive sensing is implemented in  [ 134 ] , enabling a cobotic humanoid with workers close-presence awareness. The same technology is used to draw semantics in human-humanoid physical interaction in  [ 135 ] . Moving away from traditional methods  [ 136 ] that prioritize collision-avoiding trajectories,  [ 137 ] uses tactile feedback to detect and clear movable obstacles, thereby solving the problem of navigation among movable objects. Additionally, with tactile sensors covering their arms and chest, humanoid robots HRP-2 and Punyo-1 can use their entire upper body to grasp and lift large, heavy boxes  [ 138 , 104 ] or various household items  [ 71 ] . 

 III-D Challenges in Tactile Sensing 

 Current works of tactile-based manipulation, whether in-hand or whole-body, are still largely limited to grasping or simple motions like rolling, pushing, or pick-and-place. Although tactile sensing holds great promise, its integration into more dexterous manipulation or loco-manipulation tasks that involve more dynamic interactions and contact shifting over the full body continues to pose substantial challenges. These include understanding the complex multi-contact dynamics, handling the high dimensionality of the sensor data, and addressing the sim-to-real gap. 

 Several approaches have been explored to address these difficulties. For instance, dimensionality reduction techniques such as spectral clustering, principal component analysis  [ 115 ] , and autoencoders  [ 116 ] have been employed to manage the high-dimensional input space. Others have proposed simplifying sensor outputs by using boolean contact states (i.e., contact or no-contact) instead of continuous force values in RL training  [ 111 ] . Furthermore, advances in tactile simulation  [ 117 , 118 ] are making simulated tactile data more accessible, thereby supporting zero-shot sim-to-real transfer  [ 119 ] . 

 One of the remaining fundamental challenges is to dynamically reason about contacts. This involves not only estimating contact states and static object models but, more crucially, understanding how these contacts and changes of contacts impact the system in real time, including the balance of both the robot and the object. Such information is vital for a planner to make informed decisions and, in a learning framework, can enhance sample efficiency. Addressing this challenge calls for deeper collaboration between the sensing and control communities to determine what tactile information should be abstracted and how to tightly integrate real-time tactile perception into control and planning for humanoid tasks. 

 Key Takeaways : Tactile sensing is yet an underexplored modality for advancing humanoid loco-manipulation, providing direct contact information necessary for tasks involving complex interactions with environments and objects. While it has improved task performance, achieving human-level dexterity and versatility requires advances in dynamic perception, and multi-modal sensing integration to enable systematic, real-time decision-making during interactions. Future directions include optimizing whole-body contact scheduling based on object properties and understanding how contact dynamics affect robot and object balance during loco-manipulation. Moreover, the design of whole-body tactile systems should account for varying sensor resolutions and load requirements, i.e. hands need higher resolution for delicate tasks, while body skin can operate at lower resolution but withstand higher payloads.
For further reading, we recommend a survey paper on humanoid tactile sensing  [ 13 ] , and a book chapter on tactile sensing technologies with an emphasis on deployment on humanoid robot  [ 139 ] . 

 IV Multi-Contact Planning for Humanoids 

 Figure 5: An illustration of a task sequence for loco-manipulation planning in humanoid robots, involving carrying and placing a box and pushing a cart. The planning techniques explored include (a) multi-contact trajectory planning and (b) whole-body pose planning, highlighting their contact and state planning strategies. Additionally, the pros and cons of categorized approaches in (i) sampling-based, (ii) optimization-based, and (iii) learning-based methods are summarized. 

 Multi-contact planning remains one of the most challenging tasks in robotics. Specifically, in the context of humanoid whole-body loco-manipulation, a planner ought to solve trajectories that handle rich and intricate interactions with environments or objects.
Particularly, beyond robot state trajectories, the planner is also expected to decide contact position (or contact location ), contact mode , and contact force in a loco-manipulation task. Given the underactuated nature of humanoid robots and the addition of manipulation interaction dynamics, maintaining balance and manipulating objects rely solely on these contact interactions. This already makes multi-contact planning a challenging problem. Moreover, the diverse physical properties of environments and objects ( e.g. , rigid or soft, fixed or movable) complicate the problem even further. 

 Over the past decade, the field has produced fruitful results in multi-contact humanoid planning, demonstrating promising potential across various locomotion and manipulation tasks  [ 140 , 141 , 3 , 142 ] . However, these works require pre-planned contact mode sequences before planning robot whole-body motion trajectories  [ 143 ] . This raises an open problem: how to solve the locomotion and manipulation contact planning problem simultaneously with the whole-body trajectory planning in a unified fashion, a.k.a , Contact-Implicit Planning (CIP)  [ 144 , 145 ] . The primary challenge of this CIP lies in its high computational burden and combinatorial complexity of identifying potential contact mode sequences.
Therefore, selecting suitable approaches depends on the specific problem requirements, including factors such as solving time, numerical robustness of the solution, resolution of the solution, and dependency on numerical models. 

 State-of-the-art procedures select planning algorithms for the underactuated system with three main categories: (i) searching, (ii) optimization, and (iii) learning, as illustrated in Fig.  5 . 

 IV-A Search-based Contact Planning 

 Search-based approaches employ state expansion that allows exploring configurations to make and break contacts; collisions and kinematic feasibility are often checked during each search step. Heuristics can be applied in search-based methods for efficient exploration. The search result is an optimal sequence of contact modes that ensure stability and task efficiency. Whole-body motions can be optimized during the search to verify the dynamic feasibility of candidate contact sequences  [ 146 ] or after the search in a contact-before-motion style  [ 147 ] .
Search-based methods are commonly used for gait planning in legged robot locomotion  [ 148 , 149 , 150 , 151 ] . Expanding their capabilities in more intricate multi-contact loco-manipulation planning,  [ 152 ] seeks to implement a graph search method for humanoid grasp contact planning and replanning, and  [ 153 ] introduces a contact-before-motion planner for multi-contact behaviors. 

 However, search-based methods usually struggle to cover the entire exploration space in a limited time budget for online planning and may result in solutions with high variance. To tackle this,  [ 154 ] incorporates control variate and importance sampling as statistical variance-reduction techniques for faster solution convergence.  [ 155 ] avoids the time-consuming re-planning by incorporating only forward path expansion with informed possible paths to achieve reliable online kinodynamic motion planning. 

 Figure 6: An illustration of Contact-Implicit Trajectory Optimization (CITO) that simultaneously plans contact mode, contact position, contact force, and whole-body motion. However, solving CITO problems online for humanoid loco-manipulation tasks still poses a challenge. 

 Furthermore, the feasibility guarantee of the results via search-based methods can be made through Pose Optimization (PO), a subset of multi-contact planning in humanoid loco-manipulation. This holds true when the contact locations, timings, and manner of interaction are predetermined—such as in scenarios where a humanoid safely assists a person  [ 142 ] with feasible contact locations through point cloud processing. PO focuses on leveraging optimization-based techniques to plan whole-body poses and kinematic configurations at specific time steps, given a predefined contact mode. While PO is limited to handling discrete keyframes and does not account for continuous dynamics, this makes it highly suitable as a subsequent pose generator for gradient-free multi-contact planners, reducing the kinematic computation load during the search process.
Furthermore, task-oriented objectives can be incorporated during PO, such as to maximize the interaction force  [ 156 , 157 ] and to efficiently retarget the operator’s motion into safe and feasible robot poses  [ 158 ] .
Given a nominal pushing pose,  Farnioli et al. [ 159 ] optimizes the distribution of reaction forces among all contacts to guarantee the friction constraints in heavy object pushing. Kinematics-and-mass-model-based posture generator is employed on HRP-4 humanoid to leverage leaning pose and body contacts to improve force in a heavy object pushing task  [ 79 ] .
A kino-dynamics-based PO approach is used in generating optimal humanoid pushing poses for dynamic non-prehensile loco-manipulation  [ 160 ] .
Search-based multi-contact planning and PO are often paired with online whole-body control that effectively tracks the optimal pose while adaptively interacting with the environment and objects. We detail the whole-body control strategies in Sec.  VI . 

 IV-B Optimization-based Contact Planning 

 Unlike search-based contact planning, which primarily checks kinematic feasibility for expansion and often requires additional lower-level planning to generate dynamically feasible motion, optimization-based contact planning  [ 144 ] offers the possibility of simultaneous planning of whole-body motion and contact interactions, as illustrated in Fig.  6 . This approach integrates dynamics directly into the contact planning process, eliminating the need for a hierarchical structure. A Contact-Implicit Trajectory Optimization (CITO) is formed by incorporating contact dynamics into the
trajectory optimization formulation,
allowing the solver to determine the contact modes, contact forces, contact positions, and whole-body motions all at once  [ 161 , 162 , 163 ] . 

 Due to the inherently large problem size, CITOs often rely on speed-up strategies, such as warm-starting with reasonable initial guesses for fast convergence  [ 164 ] and separating into contact planning and whole-body motion planning subproblems in a hierarchical fashion  [ 165 ] .
With the increasing demand for computation efficiency, CITOs have witnessed a rise in computation speed via sequential quadratic programming (SQP) ( e.g. ,  [ 144 ] ), differential dynamic programming (DDP)( e.g. ,  [ 166 ] ), and iterative linear quadratic regulator ( e.g. ,  [ 167 ] ).
These improvements have even enabled the use of CITO in a Model Predictive Control ( a.k.a. CI-MPC) framework for real-time planning on quadruped robots  [ 168 , 169 ] and robotic arms  [ 170 , 171 ] . However, for the humanoid robots, applying CITO to loco-manipulation has yet to be achieved. 

 Migrating such CITO as real-time CI-MPC to humanoid loco-manipulation presents its own set of challenges, including high-dimensional space of optimization variables, complex/undifferentiable contact dynamics models, proper modeling of interaction dynamics, resolution of initial guess, and tedious tuning. Esteban et al. [ 