# FULL TEXT — Is Conversational XAI All You Need? Human-AI Decision Making With a Conversational XAI Assistant

https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.17546v1

Is Conversational XAI All You Need? Human-AI Decision Making With a Conversational XAI Assistant 

 1 Introduction 
 
 2 Related Work 
 
 2.1 Human-AI Decision Making 
 2.2 Explainable AI 
 2.3 Conversational User Interfaces 

 3 Task, Method, and Hypotheses 
 
 3.1 Loan Approval Task 
 3.2 Design of XAI Interfaces 
 3.3 Hypotheses 

 4 Study Design 
 
 4.1 Experimental Conditions 
 4.2 Measures and Variables 
 4.3 Procedure 

 5 Experimental Results 
 
 5.1 Descriptive Statistics 
 
 5.2 Hypothesis Tests 
 
 5.2.1 H1 : effect of XAI interfaces on user understanding 
 5.2.2 H2 : effect of XAI interfaces on user trust 
 5.2.3 H3 : effect of XAI interfaces on appropriate reliance 
 5.2.4 H4 : effect of evaluative conversation on user trust and appropriate reliance 

 6 Discussion 
 
 6.1 Key Findings 
 6.2 Implications of Our Work 
 6.3 Caveats and Limitations 

 7 Conclusion 
 
 A Appendix 
 
 A.1 Implementation Details 
 
 A.2 Additional Exploratory Analyses 
 
 A.2.1 Impact of Covariates 
 A.2.2 The Impact of User Perceptions on Their Behavior 
 A.2.3 Confidence Dynamics 
 A.2.4 Further Analysis of User Engagement 
 A.2.5 Further Analysis of Enhanced Conversation and XAI Usage 

 A.3 Additional Discussion 

 \setcctype 
 by 
 
 Is Conversational XAI All You Need? Human-AI Decision Making With a Conversational XAI Assistant 

 Gaole He
 
 Delft University of Technology Delft The Netherlands 
 
 g.he@tudelft.nl 
 
 ,  
 Nilay Aishwarya
 
 Delft University of Technology Delft The Netherlands 
 
 nilayaishwarya02@gmail.com 
 
  and  
 Ujwal Gadiraju
 
 Delft University of Technology Delft The Netherlands 
 
 u.k.gadiraju@tudelft.nl 

 (2025) 
 
 Abstract. 
 Explainable artificial intelligence (XAI) methods are being proposed to help interpret and understand how AI systems reach specific predictions. Inspired by prior work on conversational user interfaces, we argue that augmenting existing XAI methods with conversational user interfaces can increase user engagement and boost user understanding of the AI system. In this paper, we explored the impact of a conversational XAI interface on users’ understanding of the AI system, their trust, and reliance on the AI system.
In comparison to an XAI dashboard, we found that the conversational XAI interface can bring about a better understanding of the AI system among users and higher user trust. However, users of both the XAI dashboard and conversational XAI interfaces showed clear over-reliance on the AI system. Enhanced conversations powered by large language model (LLM) agents amplified over-reliance.
Based on our findings, we reason that the potential cause of such over-reliance is the illusion of explanatory depth that is concomitant with both XAI interfaces.
Our findings have important implications for designing effective conversational XAI interfaces to facilitate appropriate reliance and improve human-AI collaboration. 
 
 Human-AI Decision Making, Appropriate Reliance, Conversational XAI Interface
 
 † † journalyear: 2025 † † copyright: cc † † conference: 30th International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces; March 24–27, 2025; Cagliari, Italy † † booktitle: 30th International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces (IUI ’25), March 24–27, 2025, Cagliari, Italy † † doi: 10.1145/3708359.3712133 † † isbn: 979-8-4007-1306-4/25/03 † † ccs: Human-centered computing Empirical studies in HCI † † ccs: Computing methodologies Artificial intelligence 

 1. Introduction 
 
 In recent years, deep learning-based AI systems have brought about tremendous possibilities to change and affect our daily life  (Parloff, 2016 ; Sejnowski, 2018 ) .
Due to the intrinsic opaqueness of such systems, automating critical decision making by using AI systems is far from reliable   (Ehsan et al . , 2024 ) .
However, leveraging such powerful AI systems to assist and empower human decision makers is an alternative that has gained prominence  (Lai et al . , 2023 ) .
In such a collaborative decision making process, explanations are incorporated to increase intelligibility and ensure that decision makers can make informed decisions  (de Fine Licht and de Fine Licht, 2020 ) .
Post-hoc explainable AI (XAI) methods are typically used to help explain AI predictions from deep learning-based AI systems. 

 To realize the goal of complementary team performance, users of an AI system are expected to rely appropriately on AI advice  (Schemmer et al . , 2022 ) .
Such appropriate reliance requires a comprehensive understanding of the AI system and its underlying rationale alongside the AI advice  (Lee and See, 2004 ; Bussone et al . , 2015 ; Schemmer et al . , 2023 ) , which play important roles in calibrating user trust and reliance behaviors  (Zhang et al . , 2020 ; Vasconcelos et al . , 2023 ) . According to several empirical studies in human-AI collaboration  (Zhang et al . , 2020 ; Lai et al . , 2023 ; Wang and Yin, 2021 ) , most XAI methods are not as helpful as expected and are even harmful at times ( e.g.,  causing over-reliance).
The reasons behind this are multi-fold: (1) Most existing XAI methods can only provide specific types of information  (Liao et al . , 2020 ) ( e.g.,  feature importance  (Lundberg and Lee, 2017 ) , counterfactual reasoning  (Yang et al . , 2022c ) ). (2)
In practice, there are diverse stakeholders of AI systems  (Preece et al . , 2018 ; Langer et al . , 2021 ) ( e.g.,  developers, experts, and laypeople)
having different levels of domain expertise and AI literacy. (3) The information needs of diverse stakeholders can vary greatly. Thus, a specific type of XAI method can seldom address varying information needs, resulting in a lack of understanding of the AI system.

 Based on folk concepts in the theory of mind literature, Jacovi et al.   (Jacovi et al . , 2023 ) argue that successful explanations can provide users with the necessary components to build a coherent mental model.
We extrapolate that to make critical decisions with AI assistance, users need to build a relatively more complete and coherent mental model by exploring different explanations provided by XAI methods.
However, such a process can be complex—it requires processing information based on a variety of aspects, depending on the XAI methods.
When presenting tailored explanations for specific audiences, designers need to trade off the simplicity and completeness of the explanations  (Hohman et al . , 2019 ) .
Instead of selecting a single specific explanation, an XAI dashboard enables users to explore their information needs by providing them access to their
desired explanations on demand.
Such an interactive interface can bring forth the advantages of both simplicity and completeness and has been increasingly recognized as an effective design   (Nori et al . , 2019 ; Yang et al . , 2022b ) .
However, not all users have the necessary AI knowledge and experience to understand or benefit from such explanations  (Liao et al . , 2020 ) .
Nor can all users articulate their information needs and find suitable XAI methods to address their concerns  (Slack et al . , 2023 ) .
Therefore, we need a more flexible, dynamic, and personalized approach to resolving users’ explanation needs. 

 Conversational user interfaces can provide a human-like interaction  (Moore et al . , 2017 ) and simplify complex tasks with filtered information  (Brennan, 1990 ) , which can bring better user experience and higher user engagement. Inspired by prior work on conversational user interfaces for XAI  (Slack et al . , 2023 ) , we argue that augmenting existing XAI methods with conversational interfaces can potentially boost users’ understanding of the AI system through an improved exploration of their explanation needs.
Such interaction may benefit humans by fostering increased engagement and helping build a relatively more coherent and complete mental model that aids their information needs.
Thus far, only a few studies  (Slack et al . , 2022 ; Lakkaraju et al . , 2022 ; Wijekoon et al . , 2022 ; Shen et al . , 2023 ; Mindlin et al . , 2024 ) 
have explored how conversational interfaces can be combined with XAI methods.
However, existing work has not systematically explored the impact of conversational XAI interfaces on user trust and reliance in the context of critical decision making.
Our work presents a study that addresses this under-explored research and empirical gap.

 In this paper, we explored how conversational XAI interfaces shape user understanding of an AI system. To this end, we aim to address the following research questions:

 RQ1 : How does a conversational XAI interface shape user understanding of an AI system, in comparison with the XAI Dashboard?
 RQ2 : How does a conversational XAI interface influence user trust and reliance on an AI system, in comparison with the XAI Dashboard? 

 To answer these questions, we conducted an empirical study ( N = 306 𝑁 306 N={306} italic_N = 306 ), exploring human-AI collaborative decision making in a loan approval task ( i.e.,  making a binary decision based on a loan applicant profile).
To further our understanding of the impact of enhanced conversation with flexible user input and high-quality text responses based on XAI outcomes, we considered large language model (LLM) agents to power the conversational XAI interface.
Overall, we found that
users with conversational XAI interfaces tended to rely more on the AI system. However, such increased reliance did not always translate into appropriate reliance.
Instead, it was characterized by clear patterns of over-reliance. Compared to an XAI dashboard, we observed limited improvements in user understanding and trust brought forth by the conversational XAI interface.
We found a strong correlation between most measures of user understanding and user trust with users’ reliance behaviors.

 Our results collectively suggest that both the XAI dashboard and the conversational XAI interface worked as persuasive technology. Leveraging LLM agents to power the conversational interface can increase the perceived plausibility of explanations, potentially amplifying such impact.

These observations highlight that supporting specific AI advice with interactive XAI interfaces can lead to creating an illusion of explanatory depth.
To this end, users may overestimate the capability of the AI system. Our findings suggest that apart from improving user experiences with conversational interfaces, addressing the illusion brought about by such persuasive technologies can be pivotal in facilitating appropriate reliance on AI systems.
Systematic empirical explorations are fundamentally important to understand how conversational interfaces can be leveraged effectively to foster optimal human-AI collaboration. In the absence of such efforts, designers and practitioners are often left to make less-informed choices that can lead to unintended consequences. In this spirit, our work has important theoretical implications for promoting appropriate reliance using XAI methods, and in equal part, design implications for effective conversational interfaces to support human-AI collaboration. 

 2. Related Work 
 
 This paper focuses on exploring the impact of an XAI dashboard and a conversational XAI interface on user understanding of an AI system ( RQ1 ), which may further affect user trust and appropriate reliance ( RQ2 ).
Thus, we position our work in the following realms of related literature: human-AI decision making (§ 2.1 ), explainable AI (§ 2.2 ), and conversational user interfaces (§ 2.3 ). 

 2.1. Human-AI Decision Making 
 
 While predictive AI systems are powerful, they are seldom perfect  (Kocielnik et al . , 2019 ) .
Transparency and accountability issues prevent deep learning-based AI systems from automation in high-stakes applications like medical diagnosis  (Davenport and Kalakota, 2019 ) .
In comparison, human workers ( e.g.,  medical doctors) show strong reliability and accountability for their work outcomes and decisions, which serve as the foundation for customers to trust their services.
With these concerns, human-AI collaborative decision making is regarded as a promising approach to taking advantage of both humans and AI to achieve more accurate and reliable decision outcomes. 

 Complementary team performance is an important goal for human-AI decision making  (Bansal et al . , 2021 ; Erlei et al . , 2024 ) , and will continue to be vital in the age of LLMs  (Biswas et al . , 2025 ; He et al . , 2025 ; Balayn et al . , 2025 ) .
To achieve complementary team performance, users of AI systems are expected to rely on AI advice appropriately  (Schemmer et al . , 2022 ) .
To this end, users are expected to follow AI advice when the AI system is more capable than them, and not rely on AI advice when the AI system is less capable.
When users fail to calibrate their trust in the AI system, they may misuse or disuse the AI advice, resulting in over-reliance and under-reliance, respectively.
The causes for unexpected reliance behaviors are complex.
For example, algorithm aversion  (Dietvorst et al . , 2015 ; Erlei et al . , 2022 ) and algorithm appreciation  (You et al . , 2022 ) can cause under-reliance and over-reliance, respectively.
Existing work has extensively explored how confidence  (Zhang et al . , 2020 ; Chong et al . , 2022 ) , risk perception  (Green and Chen, 2019a , 2020 ) , performance feedback  (Lu and Yin, 2021 ; Rechkemmer and Yin, 2022 ) , and explanations  (Wang and Yin, 2021 ; Robbemond et al . , 2022 ; Erlei et al . , 2020 ) can affect human-AI decision making. 

 Prior studies found that human factors like expertise and domain knowledge  (Nourani et al . , 2020 ; Chiang and Yin, 2022 ) and cognitive bias  (Bertrand et al . , 2022 ; He et al . , 2023b ) can greatly affect user trust  (Vereschak et al . , 2021 ) and appropriate reliance  (Schemmer et al . , 2022 ) on the AI system.
To mitigate the negative impact of some human factors, researchers have proposed tutorial interventions  (Cai et al . , 2019 ; Lai et al . , 2020 ; Chiang and Yin, 2022 ; He et al . , 2023b ) , cognitive forcing functions  (Buçinca et al . , 2021 ; Lu et al . , 2024 ; He et al . , 2024 ) , and improving transparency of the AI system  (Lai and Tan, 2019 ; Wang and Yin, 2021 ; Lu and Yin, 2021 ) . Chiang and Yin ( 2022 ) found that a tutorial intervention to reveal the limitations of the AI system can effectively reduce over-reliance.
Others have explored the role of task factors such as task complexity and uncertainty in shaping trust and reliance in human-AI decision-making  (Salimzadeh et al . , 2024 ; Salimzadeh and Gadiraju, 2024 ) . Buçinca et al . ( 2021 ) proposed cognitive forcing functions to compel people to engage more thoughtfully with explanations along with AI advice.
They found that such interventions can effectively mitigate over-reliance. 

 In previous work, researchers  (Wang and Yin, 2021 ; Warren et al . , 2023 ; Bhattacharya et al . , 2023 ; Cau et al . , 2023 ) explored how different XAI methods may affect user understanding of an AI system, trust, and reliance.
It is still unclear how the interaction interfaces to present XAI methods will substantially affect user understanding of an AI system, trust, and reliance.
In this work, we propose to fill in such research gap and explore whether conversational XAI interface can facilitate user understanding of the AI system, which further contributes to increased trust and appropriate reliance. 

 2.2. Explainable AI 
 
 While deep learning-based AI systems have been recognized as powerful predictive toolkits, explainability has been a primary concern that prevents them from becoming widespread practice.
According to GDPR, users of AI systems have the right to obtain meaningful explanations along with AI predictions  (Selbst and Powles, 2018 ) .
Under such circumstances, researchers have proposed a diverse set of XAI methods like feature attribution explanations  (Ribeiro et al . , 2016 ; Lundberg and Lee, 2017 ) , counterfactual explanations  (Wu et al . , 2021 ) , and contrastive explanations  (Jacovi et al . , 2021 ; Yin and Neubig, 2022 ) .
For a more comprehensive review of existing XAI methods and criteria to evaluate XAI methods, we encourage readers to refer to recent work by  Arrieta et al . ( 2020 ); Nauta et al . ( 2023 ) . 

 As humans have diverse information needs, there is no one-size-fits-all solution  (Liao and Varshney, 2021 ) .
With a proposal of putting users/humans at the center of technology design  (Wang et al . , 2019 ; Ehsan and Riedl, 2020 ) , more and more researchers have started to explore human-centered XAI  (Liao and Varshney, 2021 ; Ehsan et al . , 2022 ) .
In such line of literature, researchers focus on the function of explanation — how explanations affect user understanding and what characteristics make explanations effective  (Yang et al . , 2022a ; Abdul et al . , 2020 ) .
The mental model  (Johnson-Laird, 1980 ) denotes how one person build an internal representation of the external reality, 1 1 1 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mental_model and plays an important role for analyzing human-centered XAI  (Kulesza et al . , 2012 , 2013 ; Bansal et al . , 2019 ; Rong et al . , 2023 ) . Through empirical user studies, researchers found that many properties of explanations like simplicity  (Abdul et al . , 2020 ) , completeness  (Kulesza et al . , 2013 ) will substantially affect user mental model and the effectiveness of explanations. 

 According to Jacovi et al.   (Jacovi et al . , 2023 ) , effective explanations should produce coherent mental models ( i.e.,  communicate information which generalizes to contrast cases), be complete to avoid misunderstanding and be interactive to address contradictions.
We recognize that conversational XAI interfaces can satisfy all the above key properties for providing effective explanations.
Thus, we argue that a conversational XAI interface may benefit users with a better understanding of the AI system, which can further facilitate user trust and appropriate reliance.
Existing work has explored conversational XAI interfaces in the contexts of collaborative scientific writing  (Shen et al . , 2023 ) and decision support with a focus on team performance  (Slack et al . , 2022 ) .
None of the existing works, however, have systematically explored the impact of conversational XAI interfaces on trust and appropriate reliance. To fill this knowledge and empirical gap while complementing existing efforts, we designed a controlled study with loan approval tasks to analyze the impact of a conversational XAI interface on human-AI decision making. 

 2.3. Conversational User Interfaces 
 
 A conversational user interface (CUI) is a user interface for computers that emulates a conversation with a real human  (Wikipedia, 2023 ) .
CUIs have been studied widely across multiple disciplines, such as natural language processing, human-computer interaction, and artificial intelligence.
Since the famous Turing Test   (Turing, 2009 ) , the capability to conduct human-like conversation has for long been recognized as an important property of artificial intelligence.
Researchers have shown great enthusiasm for developing intelligent conversational user interfaces.
CUIs have been widely adopted in crowdsourcing  (Qiu et al . , 2020a ) , dialogue systems  (McTear, 2002 ) , search engines  (Radlinski and Craswell, 2017 ) , and recommender systems  (Jannach et al . , 2021 ; Zhou et al . , 2021 ) .
Nowadays, conversational assistants like Apple Siri, Amazon Alexa, and ChatGPT have shown promising potential in assisting users in their daily life and work. 

 The main benefits of conversational user interfaces are the natural interaction experience that they facilitate  (Narayanan and Potamianos, 2002 ) , improved user engagement  (Qiu et al . , 2020a ) , better understandability  (Mindlin et al . , 2024 ) and accessibility.
Compared with traditional graphical user interfaces (GUIs), CUIs have the advantages of more human-like interaction  (Moore et al . , 2017 ) , simplifying complex tasks with filtered information  (Brennan, 1990 ) , and leading to a higher subjective trust in the system  (Gupta et al . , 2022 ) .
Informed by these prior works, we infer that a conversational XAI interface can have similar advantages over a conventional XAI Dashboard ( i.e.,  a GUI to access current XAI methods).
With conversational XAI interfaces, users may better understand the AI system and develop higher trust and more appropriate reliance on the AI system. 

 Compared with these studies, our focus is to analyze the impact of the XAI interfaces ( i.e.,  an XAI dashboard and a conversational XAI interface) on human-AI decision making.
While several works  (Slack et al . , 2022 ; Shen et al . , 2023 ; Lakkaraju et al . , 2022 ; Srivastava et al . , 2023 ) have positioned the conversational XAI interface as a promising direction to support human-AI collaboration, this is still an under-explored research topic that requires more empirical studies. 

 3. Task, Method, and Hypotheses 
 
 In this section, we describe the loan approval task and present our hypotheses, which have been preregistered before data collection. 

 Figure 1. Screenshot of the loan approval task interface. This is the first stage of decision making. (A) Loan Applicant profile is shown in the table with 11 features. (B) To help understand the tabular data, we also provided a textual description below. (C) After going through the profile, participants are asked to decide whether this loan application is ‘ Credit Worthy ’ or ‘ Not Credit Worthy .’ 
 \Description 

 A screenshot of task interface. The task interface comprises eleven features (such as income) in a table format. Below, they need to decide whether it is credit worthy or not credit worthy. 

 Table 1. Conversation setup to trigger different XAI responses. Different XAI methods can correspond to different information needs identified in the XAI question bank  (Liao et al . , 2020 ) . Queries correspond to the options provided in the conversational XAI interface. 

 XAI method 

 Information needs 

 Queries 

 User Input 

 XAI Response 

 PDP 

 How 

 How does [a given feature] influence credit worthiness in general? 

 Feature Dropdown Selection 

 Figures illustrating probability distribution when varying specific features and description messages 

 SHAP 

 Why 

 What are the most important features influencing the current prediction? 

 N/A 

 Figures illustrating the relative importance of all the features and description messages 

 MACE 

 Why, Why not, How to be
that 

 What is the minimum change in the applicant’s profile needed to switch the current prediction? 

 N/A 

 Text Description of minimum change in the profile 

 WhatIf 

 What if, How to be that, How
to still be this 

 What would happen to the credit worthiness for [a different input]? 

 Feature Values 

 Model prediction on a new profile 

 Decision Tree 

 Why, How to still be this 

 Which sequence of steps led to the current prediction? 

 N/A 

 Figures illustrating the decision path and description message 

 3.1. Loan Approval Task 
 
 The basis for our experimental setup is a task where participants have to decide whether a loan application is Credit Worthy or Not Credit Worthy using the publicly available loan prediction dataset. 2 2 2 https://www.kaggle.com/altruistdelhite04/loan-prediction-problem-dataset 
The rationale for selecting the loan approval task as a test bed is three-fold.
Firstly, this task was chosen as a critical decision making scenario for human-AI collaboration, where there is a clear risk and a benefit when adopting AI advice.
Secondly, most laypeople are familiar with this context and can make informed decisions based on their knowledge.
Thirdly, It has also been adopted by existing research in behavioral economics  (Bertrand et al . , 2006 ) and human-AI collaboration  (Green and Chen, 2019b ; He et al . , 2023a ) . 

 In the loan approval task, participants are presented with eleven features (including loan amount, income, and the absence or presence of credit history) in both table format and text description (as shown in Figure  1 ).
Based on the application profile (composed of the eleven features), participants are asked to decide whether the loan applicant is credit worthy to get the loan approved.
This simulates a realistic scenario where participants interact with an AI system and may rely on AI advice and XAI methods due to the inherent complexity in decision-making  (Salimzadeh et al . , 2023 ) .
As the selected loan approval task is one where decision making is fully based on the eleven features, it would be easier to assess users’ decision criteria based on the top-ranked features explicitly specified by the users themselves. 

 Two-stage Decision Making . In our study, we adopted a two-stage decision making process for each loan approval task.
Every participant in our study is first asked to work on the loan approval task without any assistance from the AI system.
After that, they were given a second chance to alter their initial choice according to the AI advice ( i.e.,  AI prediction) and AI explanations ( e.g.,  XAI dashboard, according to different experimental conditions).
This setup is similar to the update condition in work by Green and Chen ( 2019b ) .
This setup is apt for analyzing user incorporation of system advice and user trust in the AI system  (Green and Chen, 2019a ; Dietvorst et al . , 2018 ) .
It is a widely adopted setup in empirical studies exploring human-AI decision making  (Wang and Yin, 2021 ; Lu and Yin, 2021 ; Chiang and Yin, 2022 ; He et al . , 2023b ) .
To assess user decision criteria, we ask users to indicate the three most important features influencing their decision at each stage along with their confidence in each decision.

 3.2. Design of XAI Interfaces 
 
 XAI methods . Our selection of XAI methods is informed by the taxonomy of XAI methods regarding user information needs  (Nauta et al . , 2023 ; Wang and Yin, 2021 ; Liao et al . , 2020 ) . Following the XAI question bank  (Liao et al . , 2020 ) , we selected six user information needs associated with the rationale of AI advice: how (global model-wide explanation), why, why not, how to be that (a different prediction), how to still be this (current prediction), and what if . These user information needs can be addressed with five widely-used XAI methods (correspondence summarized in Table  1 ).
These are (1) A global explanation method – PDP ( i.e.,  partial dependency plot)  (Friedman, 2001 ) , which visualizes how one feature globally impacts the model prediction, (2) Feature importance attribution method – SHAP  (Lundberg and Lee, 2017 ) . Based on Shapley values, the SHAP method provides feature importance to indicate how each feature supports or opposes the current model prediction.
(3) Counterfactual explanation method – MACE  (Yang et al . , 2022c ) .
MACE will inform users of the minimum changes in the applicant profile required to flip model prediction.
(4) Widely adopted interactive XAI toolkit – WhatIf. 3 3 3 https://pair-code.github.io/what-if-tool/ Based on the WhatIf toolkit, users can modify the applicant profile and obtain the model prediction for the new profile. (5) Decision tree-based explanation. 4 4 4 https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.tree.DecisionTreeClassifier.html 
This is one popular XAI method, which makes decisions based on a tree-structure decision criteria.
In our implementation, we provide the decision path to reach the AI advice.
We implemented all these XAI methods by using the OmniXAI library. 5 5 5 https://github.com/salesforce/OmniXAI More details can be found in supplementary materials. 

 (a) XAI Dashboard with WhatIf Response. 

 (b) Conversational XAI interface with SHAP Response. 

 Figure 2. Screenshots illustrating the XAI interfaces we designed. Additional screenshots demonstrating all XAI methods across both XAI interfaces are available in the supplementary materials. 
 \Description 

 Two screenshots of XAI interfaces used in our study. (a) XAI dashboard with WhatIf explainer and (b) a personalized conversational interface with SHAP explainer. 

 XAI Dashboard .
Following existing standards, the XAI dashboard is an interactive interface that provides users with XAI responses on demand when accessed through the navigation tab (see Figure  2(a) ). Users can explore all XAI methods by focusing on one at a time, which ensures both simplicity and complete coverage of the available five XAI methods. 

 Conversational XAI Interface . Templating conversational interactions via a rule-based agent  (Grudin and Jacques, 2019 ) can be an effective method to guide users in exploring their information needs and understanding the model decisions.
Thus, we adopted a rule-based conversational agent to power the conversational XAI interface.
By referring to the XAI question bank  (Liao et al . , 2020 ) , we first set up five user intents (see Table  1 ), which can be answered with the corresponding XAI responses. 

 To provide a smooth conversational experience, we curated the five user intents into three categories: about AI advice (SHAP, MACE, Decision Tree — XAI responses required no user input), AI advice for modified applicant profile (WhatIf, where users need to revise the applicant profile), and the global impact of a specific feature (PDP, where users need to specify a feature of interest).
At the beginning of the conversation, users are guided to select one category among the three and then specify one query to check or specify user input. After users receive one XAI response, we repeat the aforementioned process.
All user intents are wrapped into an iterative loop, and users can stop the conversation after receiving at least two different XAI responses.
All the conversations are guided by empowering participants to select options using custom buttons and commands ( i.e.,  dropdown selection for PDP or feature input for WhatIf, shown in Figure  2(a) ). Such designs have been widely adopted in domains such as conversational crowdsourcing  (Qiu et al . , 2020a , b ) , or customer service chatbots and proven to be effective in addressing user information needs and are easy to use for laypeople  (Klopfenstein et al . , 2017 ) . 

 Evaluative Conversational XAI Interface for Decision Support .
Based on the collected user decision criteria in the initial decision, we further adapted the conversation to guide users to check such features ( i.e.,  top- 3 3 3 3 features selected in the initial decision making).
This is inspired by the evaluative AI for explainable decision support  (Miller, 2023 ) , which argues for ‘providing evidence for and against decisions made by people.’
Such evaluative conversational XAI interfaces nudge users to think about their initial decision criteria further by comparing them with explanations from AI systems.
To this end, it is similar to cognitive forcing functions  (Buçinca et al . , 2021 ) , which has been adopted to calibrate user trust and reliance behaviors. 

 To achieve the goal of evaluative decision support in our conversational XAI interface, we adopted guiding messages in the customized buttons with user decision criteria ( i.e.,  the top- 3 3 3 3 features the user selected in initial decision making).
For XAI methods that require user input ( i.e.,  PDP and WhatIf), we adapted the guiding message with user decision criteria.
For example, instead of selecting one option for PDP, users have an extra option to directly explore how one of the selected features influences credit worthiness.
We believe that doing so can help them to explore how the selected features will affect the model prediction.
After obtaining the XAI response, the conversational assistant sends a message to check whether the user wants to continue exploring the current XAI method by either modifying or selecting a feature randomly sampled from user decision criteria.
In the case of SHAP, MACE, and Decision Tree ( i.e.,  XAI methods which do not require user input), the conversational assistant sends a message about how their initial decision criteria
work in current XAI methods, serving as evaluative feedback.
Similarly, this message helps them to check how their decision criteria differ from the AI system (as reflected by explanations provided via the XAI methods).
After users obtain the SHAP, MACE, or Decision Tree XAI response, the conversational assistant provides an extra option message to guide them to explore the PDP ( i.e.,  global explanation on feature variation) response with one randomly selected feature from their initial set of top- 3 3 3 3 features. 

 Conversational XAI Interface with LLM Agents . 6 6 6 To notice that, the conversational XAI interface supported with LLM agents was adopted as a follow-up comparison with other conditions. In the pre-registration, we only include samples and hypotheses associated with other XAI interfaces. 

While rule-based agents can inform the flow in conversational interactions, they lack the flexibility to deal with user needs in a bilateral human-like conversation.
To address such concerns and further our understanding of the impact of flexible interaction and enhanced conversation quality in the conversational XAI interface, we built another conversational XAI interface powered by LLM agents.
The benefits of introducing LLM agents are two-fold: (1) LLMs have shown promising user query understanding capability, which enables understanding user information needs and generating coherent and high-quality personalized conversation responses  (Zhao et al . , 2023 ) . (2) When equipped with XAI methods as potential tools, LLM agents can provide suitable XAI responses on demand, which may provide a better user experience ( e.g.,  more flexible expression of information needs and high-quality text responses based on XAI outcomes). 

 Apart from the difference in agents (LLM agents in this case), the entire procedure is identical to the basic conversational XAI interface.
Our implementation of the LLM agent is based on autogen  (Wu et al . , 2023 ) and GPT-4.
Given user queries, the LLM agent-based conversational XAI transforms user intents into pre-defined explainers and elaborates on the generated explanations to generate coherent text responses.
We also provide the five hint questions (as shown in Table  1 ) to trigger potential XAI responses during the conversation in a randomized order on every task. Users can ask the LLM agent any questions using textual input. For more implementation details of our LLM agent-based conversational XAI interface, readers can refer to our supplementary materials.

 3.3. Hypotheses 
 
 Our experiment was designed to answer questions surrounding the impact of conversational XAI interfaces on user understanding, trust, and reliance on AI systems.
XAI dashboards, which can switch between different XAI methods with a navigation bar, have been recognized as a promising interactive interface to present explanations towards model decisions  (Dijk et al . , 2022 ; Spinner et al . , 2019 ; Slack et al . , 2023 ) .
Considering its wide application for model explainability, we consider it a strong baseline in our study.
As shown in prior work, conversational user interfaces have the advantages of more human-like interaction  (Moore et al . , 2017 ) and simplified understanding of complex tasks with filtered information  (Brennan, 1990 ) over graphical user interfaces.
Compared with the XAI dashboard (where users interact with the dashboard in a uni-lateral fashion), the conversational XAI interface has the potential to increase user engagement, and provides a more natural bi-directional way for users to explore their information needs and develop an understanding of the AI system. As a result, users with a conversational XAI interface may develop a better understanding of the AI system.
Thus, we hypothesize that:

 (H1) : Compared to the XAI dashboard, the conversational XAI interface creates a better understanding of the AI system among users. 

 Prior work has highlighted that humans show higher trust when interacting with intelligent systems using a conversational interface compared to conventional web interfaces  (Gupta et al . , 2022 ) .
Further, conversational user interfaces have been shown to increase worker engagement in microtask crowdsourcing  (Qiu et al . , 2020a ) compared to a traditional GUI.
Such increased engagement can potentially help users deliberate, reflect, and thereby make better decisions, relying on the AI system more critically.
Conversational XAI interfaces can help users explore and address different information needs, which may bring a higher trust in the AI system.
Thus, we hypothesize:

 (H2) : Compared to the XAI dashboard, the conversational XAI interface will help users exhibit a relatively higher trust in the underlying AI system. 
 (H3) : Compared to the XAI dashboard, the conversational XAI interface will help users exhibit a relatively more appropriate reliance on the underlying AI system. 

 Evaluative decision support in the XAI interface may further help users reassess their initial thoughts about the AI system and AI advice.
By revealing the difference among their decision criteria and providing explanations for the AI system’s advice, users can obtain a better understanding of the AI system and make more critical decisions  (Miller, 2023 ) .
This can in turn facilitate critical thinking about the AI system, leading to a potential calibration of user trust and increased appropriate reliance on the AI system.
Thus, we hypothesize that:

 (H4) : Adaptive steering of conversations for evaluative decision support in the conversational XAI interface will increase user trust and appropriate reliance on an AI system. 

 4. Study Design 
 
 This section describes our experimental conditions, variables, and procedures related to our study. This study was approved by the human research ethics committee of our institution. 

 4.1. Experimental Conditions 
 
 The main aspects of our research questions and hypotheses concern the effect of different XAI interfaces.
In our study, all participants worked on the loan approval tasks with a two-stage setup (described in Section  3.1 ), where AI advice is provided in the second stage of decision making.
The only difference is the nature of the interface through which AI advice is explained. Considering this factor as the sole independent variable in our study, we designed a between-subjects study with five experimental conditions: 

 • 
 
 Control : no XAI interface. 

 • 
 
 Dashboard : with XAI dashboard interface (as described in Section  3.2 ). 

 • 
 
 CXAI : with a conversational XAI interface (as described in Section  3.2 ). 

 • 
 
 ECXAI : with a evaluative conversational XAI interface (as described in Section  3.2 ). 

 • 
 
 LLM Agent : with a conversational XAI interface powered by LLM agents (as described in Section  3.2 ). 

 4.2. Measures and Variables 
 
 Our hypotheses mainly considered five types of dependent variables: user understanding, user trust, performance, reliance, and appropriate reliance on the AI system. 

 User Understanding of the AI System .
This work focuses on analyzing the impact of the XAI interfaces instead of evaluating the quality of explanations  (Holzinger et al . , 2020 ) .
In our study, user understanding of the AI system is a function of interactive exploration with the XAI interfaces, which can evolve while working on tasks. Note that we consider and describe perceived explanation utility as a separate construct below. Based on existing literature  (Shin, 2021 ; Szymanski et al . , 2021 ; Bove et al . , 2022 ; Schmude et al . , 2023 ) , we synthesized and adopted four dimensions to assess user understanding of the AI system.
As a result of practice through our study, users can potentially learn across tasks and understand the system. We aim to capture this through the dimensions of Perceived Feature Understanding , Learning Effect across tasks, and Understanding of the System .
All questionnaires used to assess user understanding can be found in supplementary materials.
To objectively quantify user understanding of the features, we calculated nDCG  (Järvelin and Kekäläinen, 2017 ) of users’ top- 3 3 3 3 features and the SHAP feature importance ranking as Objective Feature Understanding .
For the relevance scores, we adopted a decreasing relevance for the SHAP feature order (based on the abstract value of SHAP values) with an interval of 1.
Thus the relevance scores range from [1, 11] for the 11 features we used.
Besides, Perceived Feature Understanding is also used as an indicator of perceived user understanding. 

 Explanation Utility . Alongside user understanding, the perceived explanation utility is an important aspect identified in the existing literature on human-centered XAI  (Rong et al . , 2023 ; Ehsan et al . , 2022 , 2021 ; Liao and Varshney, 2021 ) .
We synthesized and adopted four dimensions based on existing literature to evaluate the explanation utility provided in conditions with XAI interface.
According to Jacovi et al.   (Jacovi et al . , 2023 ) , effective explanations can provide users with a coherent and complete mental model to explain the current AI prediction.
Thus, we adopted the dimensions of Explanation Completeness and Explanation Coherence in our post-task questionnaires. According to Hsiao et al . ( 2021 ) , perceived Explanation Clarity and Explanation Usefulness are also important dimensions for assessing perceived explanation goodness. 

 User Trust .
 Mohseni et al . ( 2021 ) showed that understandability and predictability are desired properties for trustworthy intelligent systems.
Moreover, the perceived competence of the AI system ( i.e.,  users’ confidence about the system’s capabilities) and reliability of the AI system ( i.e.,  the extent to which the system is perceived not suffer from unexpected errors) are also identified as essential constructs to establish trust  (Ryan, 2020 ; Twyman et al . , 2008 ) .
In addition to capturing these attributes, we also captured subjective trust of users by adopting three validated subscales from the trust in automation questionnaire  (Körber, 2019 ) .
These are TiA-Reliability/Competence (TiA-R/C), TiA-Understanding/Predictability (TiA-U/P), and TiA-Trust in Automation (TiA-Trust).
Each subscale is calculated as the average score (5-point Likert) across related questions.
These measures have been shown to be meaningful to use in empirical studies of human-AI decision making  (Lai et al . , 2023 ; He et al . , 2023a ) . 

 Performance and Reliance .
As has been argued by prior work, assessing user reliance on the AI system when users agree with AI advice can be inaccurate  (Schemmer et al . , 2022 ) .
Thus, we measure both performance and user reliance from two distinct standpoints. Besides the global user performance ( i.e.,  overall Accuracy ), we also considered user performance when their initial choice disagreed with AI advice ( i.e.,   Accuracy-wid ).
Similarly, we consider Agreement Fraction ( i.e.,  how often users agree with AI advice in their final decisions) as a global measure of reliance. We consider Switch Fraction ( i.e.,  how often users adopt AI advice in cases of initial disagreement) as another precise indicator of user reliance.
To assess appropriate reliance, we followed Max et al.   (Schemmer et al . , 2022 ) to adopt Relative positive AI reliance ( RAIR ) and Relative positive self-reliance ( RSR ) metrics.
These measures enumerate all cases when the user initially disagrees with AI advice, but the correct decision is present in one of them.
By calculating the positive reliance patterns among all potential actions, RAIR and RSR assess whether users know when they should rely on the AI system and themselves, respectively.
To our knowledge, they are the most representative objective measures of appropriate reliance. 

 Other Variables . To dive deep into the impact of different XAI interfaces, we also considered other variables in our study.
User confidence has been identified as an important factor in human-AI decision making  (Passi and Vorvoreanu, 2022 ; Chong et al . , 2022 ; Green and Chen, 2019b ) .
In our study, we recorded user confidence in each stage of decision making tasks with the question–“ What is your confidence level while making this decision? .”
As described in Section  3.3 , the conversational XAI interface may benefit human-AI decision making with higher user engagement.
To quantitatively analyze such impact, we adopted the UES-SF  (O’Brien et al . , 2018 ) questionnaire in our study and considered the average score across all dimensions as an indicator of user engagement. 

 4.3. Procedure 

 Figure 3. Illustration of the procedure that participants followed in our study. This flow chart describes the experimental condition CXAI . 
 \Description 

 A flow chart to illustrate the procedure participants experienced in our study. It consists of six steps: (1) randomized condition assignment, (2) consent form and machine learning background, (3) pre-task questionnaire for ATI, (4) onboarding tutorial, (5) collaborative decision making with two-stage setup, and (6) post-task questionnaire. 

 The complete procedure participants followed in our study is illustrated in Figure  3 . All participants will be first randomly assigned to one experimental condition.
To proceed with participation, all participants were first asked to sign an informed consent form by clicking a button and also indicate their prior experience with machine learning.
Next, participants were asked to complete a pre-task questionnaire to measure their affinity for technology interaction ( i.e.,  ATI).
Then, an onboarding tutorial and a practice example were provided to help participants get familiar with the two-stage decision making setup and the corresponding XAI interface depending on the experimental condition. 7 7 7 More details pertaining to the onboarding tutorial can be found in the supplementary material. 
At this stage, participants in the Control condition only see one practice example to get familiar with the loan approval task.
Participants then worked on the ten selected tasks within a two-stage decision making setup.
Finally, they were asked to fill in post-task questionnaires (including the TiA questionnaire and questions pertaining to user understanding of the AI system via the XAI methods). 

 5. Experimental Results 
 
 In this section, we present the results of our empirical study. In addition to the main results, we carried out exploratory analyses to draw nuanced interpretations of our key insights.
Readers can refer to the appendix.
Our code and data can be found at Github. 8 8 8 https://github.com/delftcrowd/IUI2025_ConvXAI 

 5.1. Descriptive Statistics 
 
 To ensure the reliability of our results and interpretations, we only consider participants who passed all attention checks.
Finally, the participants considered for analysis were distributed in a balanced manner across the four experimental conditions: 61 ( Control ), 61 ( Dashboard ), 62 ( CXAI ), 61 ( ECXAI ),
61 ( LLM Agent ). On average, each task consumes 13 API calls to obtain responses in LLM Agent condition, including generating reply messages and XAI usage. The average time (mins) spent across conditions are: 22 ( Control ), 34 ( Dashboard ), 52 ( CXAI ), 45 ( ECXAI ), 62 ( LLM Agent ). With Kruskal-Wallis H-tests and post-hoc Mann–Whitney test, we confirmed significance: Control ¡ Dashboard ¡ CXAI , ECXAI ¡ LLM Agent . 

 Distribution of Covariates . The covariates’ distribution is as follows:
 ML Background ( 22.5 % percent 22.5 22.5\% 22.5 % with machine learning background knowledge, 77.5 % percent 77.5 77.5\% 77.5 % without machine learning background knowledge),
 ATI ( M = 3.99 𝑀 3.99 M=3.99 italic_M = 3.99 , S ⁢ D = 0.90 𝑆 𝐷 0.90 SD=0.90 italic_S italic_D = 0.90 ; 6-point Likert scale, 1: low, 6: high ),
 TiA-Propensity to Trust ( M = 2.88 𝑀 2.88 M=2.88 italic_M = 2.88 , S ⁢ D = 0.71 𝑆 𝐷 0.71 SD=0.71 italic_S italic_D = 0.71 ; 5-point Likert scale, 1: tend to distrust , 5: tend to trust ),
and TiA-Familiarity ( M = 2.67 𝑀 2.67 M=2.67 italic_M = 2.67 , S ⁢ D = 1.10 𝑆 𝐷 1.10 SD=1.10 italic_S italic_D = 1.10 ; 5-point Likert scale, 1: unfamiliar , 5: very familiar ). 

 Performance Overview . On average across all conditions, participants achieved an accuracy of
 64.5 % percent 64.5 64.5\% 64.5 % ( S ⁢ D = 0.11 𝑆 𝐷 0.11 SD=0.11 italic_S italic_D = 0.11 ), which is still lower than the AI accuracy ( 70 % percent 70 70\% 70 % ). The agreement fraction is 0.847 ( S ⁢ D = 0.16 𝑆 𝐷 0.16 SD=0.16 italic_S italic_D = 0.16 ), and the
switching fraction is 0.522 ( S ⁢ D = 0.41 𝑆 𝐷 0.41 SD=0.41 italic_S italic_D = 0.41 ). With these measures, we confirm that when users disagree with AI advice, they do not always blindly rely on AI advice.
As all dependent variables are not normally distributed, we used non-parametric statistical tests to verify our hypotheses. 

 Figure 4. Bar plot illustrating the explanation utility across conditions. Error bars represent the 95 % percent 95 95\% 95 % confidence interval. 
 \Description 

 Bar plots for explanation utility (Explanation Completeness, Explanation Coherence, Explanation Clarity, and Explanation Usefulness) across conditions with XAI interfaces. Overall, all conditions achieved similar Explanation Completeness and Explanation Clarity. Meanwhile, the conversational XAI interfaces achieved slightly better Explanation Coherence and Explanation Usefulness. 

 Explanation Utility . To illustrate how the XAI interface will affect the perceived explanation utility, we adopted a bar plot of explanation utility across conditions. As shown in Figure  4 , participants achieved similar level of Explanation Completeness and Explanation Clarity . Meanwhile, participants with conversational XAI interfaces ( i.e.,  condition CXAI , ECXAI , and LLM Agent ) achieved slightly higher Explanation Coherence and Explanation Usefulness . Based
on one-way ANOVA, we analyzed the impact of XAI interfaces in perceived explanation utility. There is no significant difference across conditions. 

 5.2. Hypothesis Tests 
 
 For the convenience of the readers, we have provided concise insights in the main body of this section and placed additional tables and figures ( e.g.,  estimation plots) that provide further details in the supplementary materials. 

 Table 2. Kruskal-Wallis H-test results for XAI interfaces ( H3 and H4 ) on reliance-based dependent variables. The post-hoc results are based on Mann–Whitney tests. “ † ⁣ † † † {\dagger\dagger} † † ” indicates the effect of the variable is significant at the level of 0.0125.

 Dependent Variables 
 H 𝐻 H italic_H 
 p 𝑝 p italic_p 
 M ± S ⁢ D plus-or-minus 𝑀 𝑆 𝐷 M\pm SD italic_M ± italic_S italic_D 
 Post-hoc results 

 Control 
 Dashboard 
 CXAI 
 ECXAI 
 LLM Agent 

 Accuracy 
 9.09 
 .059 
 0.62 ± 0.13 plus-or-minus 0.62 0.13 0.62\pm 0.13 0.62 ± 0.13 
 0.65 ± 0.11 plus-or-minus 0.65 0.11 0.65\pm 0.11 0.65 ± 0.11 
 0.67 ± 0.10 plus-or-minus 0.67 0.10 0.67\pm 0.10 0.67 ± 0.10 
 0.64 ± 0.09 plus-or-minus 0.64 0.09 0.64\pm 0.09 0.64 ± 0.09 
 0.63 ± 0.10 plus-or-minus 0.63 0.10 0.63\pm 0.10 0.63 ± 0.10 
 - 

 Agreement Fraction 
 33.66 
 .000 †† 
 0.74 ± 0.17 plus-or-minus 0.74 0.17 0.74\pm 0.17 0.74 ± 0.17 
 0.86 ± 0.17 plus-or-minus 0.86 0.17 0.86\pm 0.17 0.86 ± 0.17 
 0.89 ± 0.15 plus-or-minus 0.89 0.15 0.89\pm 0.15 0.89 ± 0.15 
 0.85 ± 0.16 plus-or-minus 0.85 0.16 0.85\pm 0.16 0.85 ± 0.16 
 0.89 ± 0.11 plus-or-minus 0.89 0.11 0.89\pm 0.11 0.89 ± 0.11 
 
 Control ¡ Dashboard , CXAI , ECXAI , LLM Agent 

 Switch Fraction 
 19.14 
 .001 †† 
 0.31 ± 0.34 plus-or-minus 0.31 0.34 0.31\pm 0.34 0.31 ± 0.34 
 0.57 ± 0.41 plus-or-minus 0.57 0.41 0.57\pm 0.41 0.57 ± 0.41 
 0.58 ± 0.43 plus-or-minus 0.58 0.43 0.58\pm 0.43 0.58 ± 0.43 
 0.57 ± 0.41 plus-or-minus 0.57 0.41 0.57\pm 0.41 0.57 ± 0.41 
 0.57 ± 0.41 plus-or-minus 0.57 0.41 0.57\pm 0.41 0.57 ± 0.41 
 
 Control ¡ Dashboard , CXAI , ECXAI , LLM Agent 

 Accuracy-wid 
 5.06 
 .281 
 0.46 ± 0.30 plus-or-minus 0.46 0.30 0.46\pm 0.30 0.46 ± 0.30 
 0.50 ± 0.36 plus-or-minus 0.50 0.36 0.50\pm 0.36 0.50 ± 0.36 
 0.52 ± 0.35 plus-or-minus 0.52 0.35 0.52\pm 0.35 0.52 ± 0.35 
 0.55 ± 0.38 plus-or-minus 0.55 0.38 0.55\pm 0.38 0.55 ± 0.38 
 0.42 ± 0.36 plus-or-minus 0.42 0.36 0.42\pm 0.36 0.42 ± 0.36 
 - 

 RAIR 
 11.01 
 .026 † 
 0.35 ± 0.39 plus-or-minus 0.35 0.39 0.35\pm 0.39 0.35 ± 0.39 
 0.50 ± 0.44 plus-or-minus 0.50 0.44 0.50\pm 0.44 0.50 ± 0.44 
 0.60 ± 0.45 plus-or-minus 0.60 0.45 0.60\pm 0.45 0.60 ± 0.45 
 0.52 ± 0.44 plus-or-minus 0.52 0.44 0.52\pm 0.44 0.52 ± 0.44 
 0.48 ± 0.45 plus-or-minus 0.48 0.45 0.48\pm 0.45 0.48 ± 0.45 
 
 Control ¡ CXAI 

 RSR 
 38.26 
 .000 †† 
 0.57 ± 0.46 plus-or-minus 0.57 0.46 0.57\pm 0.46 0.57 ± 0.46 
 0.29 ± 0.44 plus-or-minus 0.29 0.44 0.29\pm 0.44 0.29 ± 0.44 
 0.23 ± 0.40 plus-or-minus 0.23 0.40 0.23\pm 0.40 0.23 ± 0.40 
 0.26 ± 0.41 plus-or-minus 0.26 0.41 0.26\pm 0.41 0.26 ± 0.41 
 0.11 ± 0.29 plus-or-minus 0.11 0.29 0.11\pm 0.29 0.11 ± 0.29 
 
 Control ¿ Dashboard , CXAI , ECXAI , LLM Agent 

 Dashboard ¿ LLM Agent 

 5.2.1. H1 : effect of XAI interfaces on user understanding 
 
 To analyze the main effect of the XAI interfaces on user understanding of the AI system, we conducted an Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA) with the experimental condition as between-subjects factor and TiA-Propensity to Trust , TiA-Familiarity , ATI , and ML Background as covariates.
While our data may not be normally distributed, we still adopted AN(C)OVAs for analysis because these analyses have been shown to be robust to Likert-type ordinal data  (Norman, 2010 ) .
For this analysis, we considered all participants across three experimental conditions with XAI ( i.e.,   Dashboard , CXAI , and ECXAI ).
We found no significant differences resulting from the different XAI interfaces ( i.e.,  experimental condition). However, the TiA-Propensity to Trust showed a significant impact on all dimensions of user understanding.
For the objective feature understanding (continuous value, non-normal distribution), we conducted Kruskal-Wallis H-tests by considering different XAI interfaces. A significant difference ( H = 16.19 , p = .001 formulae-sequence 𝐻 16.19 𝑝 .001 H=16.19,p=.001 italic_H = 16.19 , italic_p = .001 ) was found between participants with different XAI interfaces. Through post-hoc Mann–Whitney U test, we found that LLM Agent condition achieved significantly worse objective feature understanding than the Dashboard , CXAI , and ECXAI conditions.
Thus, we did not find any support for H1 . 

 5.2.2. H2 : effect of XA