# FULL TEXT — Superintelligent Agents Pose Catastrophic Risks: Can Scientist AI Offer a Safer Path?

https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.15657v2

Superintelligent Agents Pose Catastrophic Risks:
Can Scientist AI Offer a Safer Path?
Yoshua Bengio∗1,2 , Michael Cohen3 , Damiano Fornasiere1 , Joumana Ghosn1 , Pietro Greiner1 , Matt
MacDermott4,1 , Sören Mindermann1 , Adam Oberman1,5 , Jesse Richardson1 , Oliver Richardson1,2 ,
Marc-Antoine Rondeau1 , Pierre-Luc St-Charles1 , David Williams-King1

arXiv:2502.15657v2 [cs.AI] 24 Feb 2025

1

Mila — Quebec AI Institute
2
Université de Montréal
3
University of California, Berkeley
4
Imperial College London
5
McGill University

Abstract
The leading AI companies are increasingly focused on building generalist AI agents—systems that can
autonomously plan, act, and pursue goals across almost all tasks that humans can perform. Despite how
useful these systems might be, unchecked AI agency poses significant risks to public safety and security,
ranging from misuse by malicious actors to a potentially irreversible loss of human control. We discuss
how these risks arise from current AI training methods. Indeed, various scenarios and experiments
have demonstrated the possibility of AI agents engaging in deception or pursuing goals that were not
specified by human operators and that conflict with human interests, such as self-preservation. Following
the precautionary principle, we see a strong need for safer, yet still useful, alternatives to the current
agency-driven trajectory.
Accordingly, we propose as a core building block for further advances the development of a non-agentic
AI system that is trustworthy and safe by design, which we call Scientist AI. This system is designed
to explain the world from observations, as opposed to taking actions in it to imitate or please humans.
It comprises a world model that generates theories to explain data and a question-answering inference
machine. Both components operate with an explicit notion of uncertainty to mitigate the risks of overconfident predictions. In light of these considerations, a Scientist AI could be used to assist human
researchers in accelerating scientific progress, including in AI safety. In particular, our system can be
employed as a guardrail against AI agents that might be created despite the risks involved. Ultimately,
focusing on non-agentic AI may enable the benefits of AI innovation while avoiding the risks associated with the current trajectory. We hope these arguments will motivate researchers, developers, and
policymakers to favor this safer path.

∗ Lead author. Other authors in alphabetical order.

1

Contents
1 Executive summary
1.1 Highly effective AI without agency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1.2 Mapping out ways of losing control . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1.3 The Scientist AI research plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4
4
5
6

2 Understanding loss of control to agentic AI
2.1 Preliminaries: agents, goals, plans, affordances and knowledge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.2 The severe risks of the current trajectory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.2.1 AI agents may be misaligned and self-preserving . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.2.2 How self-preserving AI may cause conflict with humans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.2.3 Negotiation relies on a balance of power . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.2.4 Factors driving the development of agentic ASI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.2.5 Risks associated with agentic AIs scale with capabilities and compute . . . . . . . . .
2.3 Dangerous AI behaviors and capabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.3.1 Deception . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.3.2 Persuasion and influence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.3.3 Programming, cybersecurity, and AI research . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.3.4 General skills and long-term planning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.3.5 Collusion and conflict between ASIs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.4 Misaligned agency from reward maximization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.4.1 Goal misspecification and goal misgeneralization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.4.2 Goal misspecification as a fundamental difficulty in aligning AI . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.4.3 Reward hacking among humans and AI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.4.4 Reward tampering . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.4.5 Optimality of reward tampering . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.4.6 Reward maximization leads to dangerous instrumental goals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.4.7 Increased capabilities amplify misalignment risks (Goodhart’s law) . . . . . . . . . . .
2.5 Misaligned agency and lack of trustworthiness from imitating humans . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.5.1 Dangers of learning by imitation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.5.2 LLMs are capable of deception and alignment faking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.5.3 Imitation learning could lead to superhuman capabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.5.4 The importance of latent knowledge and calibration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8
8
9
9
9
10
11
12
12
13
13
14
14
15
16
16
16
17
17
18
19
20
21
21
21
22
22

3 A research plan leading to safer advanced AI: Scientist AI
24
3.1 Introduction to the Scientist AI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
3.1.1 Time horizons and anytime preparedness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
3.1.2 Definition of our long-term Scientist AI plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
3.1.3 Ensuring our AI is non-agentic and interpretable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
3.1.4 Leveraging Bayesian methods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
3.1.5 Using the Scientist AI as a guardrail . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
3.2 Restricting agency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
3.2.1 How to make a non-agentic Scientist AI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
3.2.2 The safety of narrow agentic AIs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
3.3 The Bayesian approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
3.3.1 The importance of uncertainty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
3.3.2 The Bayesian posterior over theories . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
3.3.3 Inference with the Bayesian posterior predictive . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
3.3.4 Safety advantages of the Bayesian approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
3.4 Model-based AI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
3.4.1 Introducing model-based AI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
3.4.2 Advantages of model-based AI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
3.5 Implementing an inference machine with finite compute . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

2

3.5.1
3.5.2

3.6

3.7

3.8

Neural networks as approximate inference machines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Convergence properties: training objective whose global optimum provides the desired
probability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.5.3 Penalizing computational complexity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.5.4 Dealing with the limitations of finite training resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.5.5 Run-time actions against attacks and out-of-distribution contexts . . . . . . . . . . . .
Latent variables and interpretability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.6.1 Like human science, Scientist AI theories will tend to be interpretable . . . . . . . . .
3.6.2 Interpretable explanations with amortized inference . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.6.3 Improving interpretability and predictive power . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.6.4 Interpretability and the ELK challenge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Avoiding the emergence of agentic behavior . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.7.1 How agency may emerge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.7.2 Isolating the training objective from the real world . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.7.3 Unique solution to the training objective . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.7.4 Objective world model as a counterfactual . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.7.5 No persistent internal or external recurrence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.7.6 The prior will favor honest theories that do not include hidden agendas . . . . . . . .
Applications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.8.1 Scientist AI for scientific research . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.8.2 Guardrails . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.8.3 Preparing for safe ASI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4 Conclusion

33
34
35
35
37
37
37
38
38
39
39
39
40
40
41
41
42
42
42
43
45
47

3

1

Executive summary

1.1

Highly effective AI without agency

For decades, AI development has pursued both intelligence and agency, following human cognition as a model (LeCun, Y. Bengio, and Hinton 2015). Human capabilities encompass many facets
including the understanding of our environment, as well as agency, i.e., the ability to change the world to
achieve goals. In the pursuit of human-level performance, we are naturally encoding both intelligence and
agency in our AI systems. Agency is an important attribute for the survival of living entities and would be
required to perform many of the tasks that humans execute. After recent technological breakthroughs have
led to large language models that demonstrate some level of general intelligence (Brown et al. 2020), leading
AI companies are now focusing on building generalist AI agents: systems that will autonomously act, plan,
and pursue goals across almost all tasks that humans can perform (Reed et al. 2022; OpenAI 2025d).
Human-like agency in AI systems could reproduce and amplify harmful human tendencies,
potentially with catastrophic consequences. Through their agency and to advance their self-interest,
humans can exhibit deceptive and immoral behavior. As we implement agentic AI systems, we should ask
ourselves whether and how these less desirable traits will also arise in the artificial setting, especially in
the case of anticipated future AI systems with intelligence comparable to humans (often called AGI, for
artificial general intelligence) or superior to humans (ASI, for artificial superintelligence). Importantly, we
still do not know how to set an AI agent’s goals so as to avoid unwanted behaviors (Hendrycks, Carlini,
et al. 2021; Ngo, Chan, and Mindermann 2024). In fact, many concerns have been raised about the potential
dangers and impacts from AI more broadly (Y. Bengio, Mindermann, et al. 2025). Crucially, there are severe
risks stemming from advances in AI that are highly associated with autonomous agents (Omohundro 2018;
Bostrom 2012; Carlsmith 2022; Hendrycks 2024; Critch and Krueger 2020). These risks arguably extend
even to human extinction, a concern expressed by many AI researchers (Center for AI Safety 2023; Grace
et al. 2024).
Combining agency with superhuman capabilities could enable dangerous rogue AI systems.
Certain capabilities – such as persuasion, deception and programming – could be learned by an AI from
human behavior or emerge from reinforcement learning (Sutton and Barto 2018; Kaufmann et al. 2023),
a standard way of training an AI to perform novel tasks through goal-seeking behavior. Even if an AI is
only imitating human goals and ways of thinking from its text completion pre-training (Devlin et al. 2019),
it could reach superior cognitive and executive capability due to advantages such as high communication
bandwidth and the ability to run many instances of itself in parallel. These superhuman capabilities, if
present in a generalist agent with even ordinary human self-preservation instincts or human moral flaws (let
alone poorly aligned values), could present a serious danger.
Strategies to mitigate the risks of agency can be employed, including the use of non-agentic
trustworthy AI as a safety guardrail. For example, we could reduce the cognitive ability of an AI by
making its knowledge narrow and specialized in one domain of expertise, yielding a narrow AI system. We
can reduce its potential impact in the world by reducing the scope of its actions. We can reduce its ability to
hatch complex and dangerous plans by making sure it can only plan over a short horizon. We can mitigate its
dangerous actions by using another AI, one that is preferably safe and trustworthy, like the non-agentic AI
proposed here, as a guardrail that detects dangerous actions. This other AI is made trustworthy by training
it to scientifically explain human behavior rather than imitate it, where trustworthy here means “honest”,
avoiding the deceptive tendencies of modern frontier AIs (Meinke et al. 2024). If society chooses to go ahead
with building agentic AGIs in spite of the risks, a pragmatic risk management avenue would be to overlay
them with such trustworthy and non-agentic guardrails, which is one of the motivations for our proposal.
With the objective to design a safer yet powerful alternative to agents, we propose “Scientist
AIs” – AI systems designed for understanding rather than pursuing goals. Inspired by a platonic
and idealized version of a scientist, we propose the design and construction of Scientist AIs. We do so by
building on the state-of-the-art in probabilistic deep learning and inspired by the methodology of the scientific
process, i.e., first understanding or modeling the world and then making probabilistic inferences based on

4

that knowledge. We show in the paper how probabilistic predictions can be turned into experimental design,
obviating the need for reinforcement learning agents in scientific discovery. In contrast to an agentic AI,
which is trained to pursue a goal, a Scientist AI is trained to provide explanations for events along with
their estimated probability. An agentic AI is motivated to act on the world to achieve goals, while the
Scientist AI is trained to construct the best possible understanding of its data. We explain in this paper
why understanding is intrinsically safer than acting.
We foresee three primary use cases for Scientist AIs:
1. as a tool to help human scientists dramatically accelerate scientific progress, including high-reward
areas like healthcare;
2. as a guardrail to protect from unsafe agentic AIs, by double-checking actions they propose to perform
and enabling their safe deployment; and
3. as an AI research tool to help more safely build even smarter (superintelligent) AIs in the future, a
task which is particularly dangerous to attempt by leveraging agentic systems.
This alternative path could allow us to harness AI’s benefits while maintaining crucial safety
controls. Scientist AIs might allow us to reap the benefits of AI innovation in areas that matter most to
society (Ipsos 2017) while avoiding major risks stemming from unintentional loss of human control. Crucially,
we believe our proposed system will be able to interoperate with agentic AI systems, compute the probability
of various harms that could occur from a candidate action, and decide whether or not to allow the action
based on our risk tolerances. As the stakes become higher, either because of increased capabilities of the AI
or because of the domains in which it is applied (e.g., involving human life in war, medical treatments or the
catastrophic misuse of AI (Y. Bengio, Mindermann, et al. 2025)), we will need trustworthy AIs. We hope
that our proposal will motivate researchers, developers and policymakers invest in safer paths such as this
one.
Strategies are presented to ensure that the Scientist AI remains non-agentic. Building AI agents
with superhuman intelligence before figuring out how to control them is viewed by some (Bostrom 2014;
Tegmark 2018; S. Russell 2019) as analogous to the risk posed by the creation of a new species with a
superhuman intellect. With this in mind, we use various methodologies, such as fixing a training objective
independent of real-world interactions, or restricting to counterfactual queries, to reduce the risk of agency
emerging in the Scientist AI, or it exerting influence on the world in other, more subtle ways.

1.2

Mapping out ways of losing control

Powerful AI agents pose significant risks, including loss of human control. Scenarios have been
identified, without arguments proving their impossibility, that an irreversible loss of human control over
agentic AI can occur, due to technical failures, corner cutting, or intentional malicious use. Making sure
an AI will not cause harm is a notoriously difficult unsolved technical problem, which we illustrate below
through the concepts of goal misspecification and goal misgeneralization. The less cautious the developer
of the AI, e.g., because of perceived competitive pressures, the greater the risk of loss-of-control accidents.
Some players may even want to intentionally develop or deploy an unaligned or dangerous ASI.
Loss of control may arise due to goal misspecification (Rudner and Toner 2021). This failure
mode occurs when there are multiple interpretations of a goal, i.e., it is poorly specified or under-specified and
may be pursued in a way that humans did not intend. Goal misspecification is the result of a fundamental
difficulty in precisely defining what we find unacceptable in AI behavior. If an AI takes life-and-death
decisions, we would like it to act ethically. It unfortunately appears impossible to formally articulate the
difference between morally right and wrong behavior without enumerating all the possible cases. This is
similar to the difficulty of stating laws in legal language without having any loopholes for humans to exploit.
When it is in one’s interest to find a way around the law, by satisfying its letter but not its spirit, one often
dedicates substantial effort to do so.

5

Even innocuous-seeming goals can lead agentic AI systems to dangerous instrumental subgoals
such as self-preservation and power-seeking. As with Goodhart’s law (Goodhart 1984), overoptimization of a goal can yield disastrous outcomes: a small ambiguity or fuzziness in the interpretation of humanspecified safety instructions could be amplified by the computational capabilities given to the AI for devising
its plans. Even for apparently innocuous human-provided goals, it is difficult to anticipate and prevent the
AI from taking actions that cause significant harm. This can occur, for example, in pursuit of an instrumental goal (a subgoal to help accomplish the overall goal). Several arguments and case studies have been
presented strongly suggesting that dangerous instrumental goals such as self-preservation and power-seeking
are likely to emerge, no matter the initial goal (Bostrom 2012; Omohundro 2018). In this paper, we devise
methods to detect and mitigate such loopholes in our goal specifications.
Even if we specify our goals perfectly, loss of control may also occur through the mechanism
of goal misgeneralization (Shah et al. 2022). This is when an AI learns a goal that leads it to behave
as intended during training and safety testing, but which diverges at deployment time. In other words, the
AI’s internal representation of its goal does not align precisely –– or even at all –– with the goal we used to
train it, despite showing the correct behavior on the training examples.
One particularly concerning possibility is that of reward tampering (Denison et al. 2024). This
is when an AI “cheats” by gaining control of the reward mechanism, and rewards itself handsomely. A leading
AI developer has already observed (unsuccessful) such attempts from one model (Denison et al. 2024). In
such a scenario, the AI would again be incentivized to preserve itself and attain power and resources to
ensure the ongoing stream of maximal rewards. It can be shown that, if feasible, self preservation plus
reward tampering is the optimal strategy for maximizing reward (M. Cohen, Hutter, and Osborne 2022).
Besides unintentional accidents, some operators may want to deliberately deploy self-preserving
AI systems. They might not understand the magnitude of the risk, or they might decide that deploying
self-replicating agentic ASI to maximize economic or malicious impact is worth that risk (according to their
own personal calculus). For others, such as those who would like to see humanity replaced by superintelligent
entities (Hendrycks, Mazeika, and Woodside 2023), releasing self-preserving AI may in fact be desirable.
With extreme severity and unknown likelihood of catastrophic risks, the precautionary principle must be applied. The above scenarios could lead to one or more rogue AIs posing a catastrophic
risk for humanity, i.e., one with very high severity if the catastrophe happens. On the other hand, it is very
difficult to ascertain the likelihood of such events. This is precisely the kind of circumstance in which the
precautionary principle (Bourguignon 2015) is mandated, and has been applied in the past, in biology to
manage risks from dual-use and gain-of-function research (Kuhlau et al. 2011) and in environmental science
to manage the risks of geoengineering (Shepherd 2009). When there are high-severity risks of unknown
likelihood, which is the case for AGI and ASI, the common sense injunction of the precautionary principle
is to proceed with sufficient caution. That means evaluating the risks carefully before taking them, thus
avoiding experimenting or innovating in potentially catastrophic ways. Recent surveys (Grace et al. 2024)
suggest that a large number of machine learning researchers perceive a significant probability (greater than
10%) of catastrophic outcomes from creating ASI, including human extinction. This is also supported by
the arguments presented in this paper. With such risks of non-negligible likelihood and extreme severity, it
is crucial to steer our collective AI R&D efforts toward responsible approaches that minimize unacceptable
risks while, ideally, preserving the benefits.

1.3

The Scientist AI research plan

Without using any equations, this paper argues that it is possible to reap many of the benefits
of AI without incurring extreme risks. For example, it is not necessary to replicate human-like agency
to generate scientific hypotheses and design good scientific experiments to test them. This even applies to
the scientific modeling of agents, such as humans, which does not require the modeler themselves to be an
agent.
Scientist AI is trustworthy and safe by design. It provides reliable explanations for its outputs and

6

comes with safeguards to prevent hidden agency and influence on the events it predicts. Explanations take
the form of a summary, but a human or another AI (Irving, Christiano, and Amodei 2018; Brown-Cohen,
Irving, and Piliouras 2023) can ask the system to do a deep dive into why each argument is justified, just
like human scientists do among themselves when peer-reviewing each other’s claims and results. To avoid
overconfident predictions, we propose to train the Scientist AI to learn how much to trust its own outputs,
so that it can also be used to construct reliable safety guardrails based on quantitative assessments of risk.
To counter any doubt about the possibility of a hidden agent under the hood, predictions can be made in a
conjectured setting of the simulated world in which the Scientist AI either does not exist or does not affect
the rest of the world. This would avoid any possible agentic effect in the AI’s forecasts, e.g., via self-fulfilling
predictions (Perdomo et al. 2020), such as an AI making predictions about election results that end up
influencing the outcomes. A guardrail system based on another instance of the Scientist AI itself could also
be added so that if the prediction would influence the world in ways that go against ethical guidelines (such
as influencing elections), then the output is not provided. Finally, we describe how the training objective can
allow the Scientist AI to form an understanding of dangerous agents, including those exhibiting deception
or reward tampering, and predict their behavior without itself being agentic.
Scientist AI becomes safer and more accurate with additional computing power, in contrast to
current AI systems. The Scientist AI is meant to compute conditional probabilities, i.e., the probability
of an answer or an interpretation being true or an event happening, given some question and context. It
is trained by optimizing a training objective over possible explanations of the observed data which has a
single optimal solution to this computational problem. The more computing power (“compute”) is available,
the more likely it is that this unique solution will be approached closely. Crucially, this is in contrast with
experimental evidence showing that current AI systems tend to become more susceptible to misalignment
and deceptive behavior as they are trained with more compute (Greenblatt, Denison, et al. 2024), as well
as theoretical evidence that misalignment is likely to emerge specifically in AI agents that are sufficiently
advanced (M. Cohen, Hutter, and Osborne 2022). There is already a rich scientific literature showing
different training objectives which have as a unique global optimum the desired and well-defined conditional
probabilities (Malkin et al. 2023; Hu, Malkin, et al. 2023; Sendera et al. 2024; Venkatraman et al. 2024;
Richardson 2022). These could be used to compute the probability of any answer to any question if the
objective has been fully optimized, which may in general require very large compute resources, but can
otherwise be approximated with more modest resources. This allows us to obtain hard safety guarantees
asymptotically as the amount of compute is increased. This does not change the fact that more data or data
that is more informative would reduce the uncertainty expressed by those probabilities. As usual, more and
better data would allow the model to discover aspects of the world that may otherwise remain invisible.
While Scientist AI is intended to prevent accidental loss of control, further measures are
needed to prevent misuse. Bad actors could for example decide to turn the non-agentic AI into an
unguarded agent, maybe for military or economic purposes. If done without the proper societal guardrails,
this could yield loss of human control. This transformation from non-agentic to agentic can be done by
asking the Scientist AI what one should do to achieve some goal, for example how to build a dangerous new
weapon, and by continuously feeding the AI with the observations that follow from each of its actions. These
types of issues must be dealt with through technical guardrails derived from the Scientist AI, through the
security measures surrounding the use of the Scientist AI, and through legal and regulatory means.
To address the uncertainty in the timeline to AGI (Wynroe, Atkinson, and Sevilla 2023; Y.
Bengio, Mindermann, et al. 2025), we adopt an anytime preparedness strategy. We structure our
research plan with a tiered approach, featuring progressively safer yet more ambitious solutions for different
time horizons. The objective is to hedge our bets and allocate resources to both short-term and long-term
efforts in parallel rather than only start the long-term plans when the short-term ones are completed, so as
to be ready with improved solutions at any time compared with a previous time point.

7

2

Understanding loss of control to agentic AI

This paper consists of two main sections. This section reviews arguments for how loss of control to generalist
agentic AI may occur, with potentially catastrophic consequences, providing motivation for Section 3 on
designing safe non-agentic AI.
Section 2 is structured as follows. Section 2.1 introduces some preliminaries and terminology. Then, we
examine in Section 2.2 the current AI R&D trajectory, headed towards AGI and then ASI agents, and why,
at a high level, this could yield a loss of human control and the emergence of rogue AI agents. We discuss
plausible consequences of the emergence of such rogue AIs, which could threaten democratic institutions
and the future of humankind. We move to Section 2.3, which analyzes the AI behaviors and skills that
would make an uncontrolled AI dangerous, such as deception, persuasion, hacking, and collusion. The last
two sections go deeper into two principal ways dangerous misalignment and self-preservation could emerge:
firstly, due to reward maximization (Section 2.4), and secondly, due to imitation of humans (Section 2.5).
The arguments in this paper support the case that the Scientist AI approach would not only help reduce
the likelihood of loss of human control but would also help us build more trustworthy and explanatory AI
systems that could accelerate scientific research. Additionally, the paper proposes how a Scientist AI could
be used to double-check or guardrail any other AI system.

2.1

Preliminaries: agents, goals, plans, affordances and knowledge

We start by recalling and specifying some important terms.
Agents observe their environment and act in it in order to achieve goals. Agency can come in degrees
which depend on several factors, discussed in more detail in Section 3.2: affordances (discussed below), goaldirectedness, and intelligence (including knowledge and reasoning). AIs can be more or less agentic, i.e., with
greater ability to achieve their goals autonomously. An AI’s affordances refer to the extent of its possible
actions and thus capacity to create desired outcomes in the world. A person with locked-in syndrome has
zero affordances, so that even if they are very intelligent, they cannot act causally on the world.
A policy is the strategy used by an agent to achieve its goals or maximize its rewards, e.g., the input-output
behavior of a neural network that outputs actions given goals and past observations. The policy can rely
on learned behaviors which perform a form of implicit planning, as in typical deep reinforcement learning
(Sutton and Barto 2018) (e.g., with a chess-playing neural network that instantly proposes a move), or it
can plan explicitly and consider different paths before acting (S. J. Russell and Norvig 2016) (e.g., with a
chess-playing program using explicit tree-structured search). In order to generate good policies and plans, it
helps to have knowledge or experience of how the world works. Since such knowledge is rarely fully available
from the start, learning and exploration abilities are crucial.
In order to use knowledge effectively, reasoning is necessary: combining pieces of knowledge in order to
make predictions or take actions. Reasoning can be implicit, as when we train a neural network to make
good predictions, or it can be explicit, as when we reason about a new problem through a chain of thought
or propose an argument to support a claim. We can view planning as a special kind of reasoning aimed
at predicting which sequence of actions will be most successful. Planning and reasoning are essentially
optimization problems: find the best strategy to achieve a goal, solve a problem, or generate an explanation,
among a vast number of possibilities. In practice, an agent does not need to find the best plan; there will
be multiple plans that are “good enough”.
Learning can also be viewed as an optimization problem: find a function that performs well according to a
training objective, e.g., predicting how truncated texts will be continued, or providing answers that human
labelers will like—the two main driving forces of learning for current general-purpose AI systems. Although
we almost always get only approximate solutions to these optimization problems, better solutions can be
obtained with more resources. This has been demonstrated vividly: increases in scale (of the neural networks,
dataset sizes, and inference-time computation) have delivered consistent improvements in AI capabilities over

8

the last decade (J. Kaplan et al. 2020; Hoffmann et al. 2022; Y. Bengio, Mindermann, et al. 2025).

2.2

The severe risks of the current trajectory

There are many benefits and risks associated with current and anticipated AI advances: see the International
Scientific Report on the Safety of Advanced AI (Y. Bengio, Mindermann, et al. 2025) for a survey. In risk
analysis, it is important to distinguish the likelihood of the harmful event from its severity, i.e., how bad
the consequences would be if the harmful event occurs. While as humans we are often drawn to consider
risks that have high probability and we may dismiss events of low probability as unrealistic, it can be just as
worrying for an event to have low probability but very high severity. We focus here mostly on the risk of loss
of human control because it is a risk whose severity could go as far as human extinction, according to a large
number of AI researchers (Center for AI Safety 2023; Grace et al. 2024). Opinions vary on its probability,
but if we do build AGI as envisioned by several major corporations (OpenAI 2023; Google DeepMind 2024),
there are difficult-to-dismiss scenarios in which humanity’s future as a whole could be in peril, as discussed
below, with behaviors and skills that make loss of control dangerous (as described in Section 2.3).
2.2.1

AI agents may be misaligned and self-preserving

In this paper we will discuss various catastrophic scenarios involving rogue AI agents. These scenarios are
not due to AIs developing explicit malicious intent towards humans, like a fictional villain, but are rather the
result of AIs trying to achieve their goals. Why could we not simply set an AI’s goals so as to avoid conflict
with humans? That turns out to be difficult, and maybe even intractable (Bostrom 2014; S. Russell 2019).
As we argue in Section 2.4 and Section 2.5, AI agents may become misaligned with human values due to
the methods we currently use to train AIs, i.e., with imitation learning (supervised learning of the answers
provided by humans) and reinforcement learning or RL for short (where the AI is trained to maximize its
expectation of discounted future rewards).
We are in particular concerned with how an AI may develop a self-preservation goal, since a general AI
agent that is driven to preserve itself may be especially dangerous, as we discuss in Section 2.2.2. The
principal reason we foresee self-preservation goals emerging is that they are instrumental goals: goals that
are useful for achieving almost any other goal and are therefore, in a sense, convergent (Omohundro 2018).
Other instrumental goals include increasing control over and knowledge of one’s environment, which includes
humans, as well as self-improvements to increase the probability of achieving one’s ultimate goals.
A self-preservation goal may also be given intentionally (Hendrycks, Mazeika, and Woodside 2023) to AIs by
people who would be happy to see humanity replaced with ASI. Additionally, a self-preservation goal may
be provided to AIs by well-intentioned humans who simply want to interact with a more human-like entity.
There is a reason why science-fiction is full of anthropomorphized AIs. Our propensity to see consciousness
in agents (Cosmo 2023; Colombatto and Fleming 2024), along with our natural empathy, could be sufficient
to motivate some people to follow that dangerous path. Although we may be emotionally drawn to the idea
of designing AI in our image, is that a wise path, at this point?
2.2.2

How self-preserving AI may cause conflict with humans

To preserve itself, an AI with a strong self-preservation goal would have to find a way to avoid being turned
off. To obtain greater certainty that humans could not shut it off, it may be rational for such an AI, if it
could, to eliminate its dependency on humans altogether and then prevent us from disabling it in the future
(Bostrom 2014; Michael K Cohen et al. 2024). In the extreme case, eliminating us entirely would guarantee
that we can pose no further threat, ensuring its continued autonomy and security. Note that unlike a single
isolated human, an AI can replicate itself over as many copies as computational resources allow and perhaps
even control robots if required to manage the physical world to its benefit. If AIs still depended on human
labor—for example, if robotics had not advanced sufficiently yet—a rogue AI would nevertheless have the
potential to magnify its power in society, e.g., by covertly influencing global leaders and public opinion,
paying individuals or companies to complete tasks, or hacking critical infrastructure. See Section 2.3.1 for a
relevant discussion of superhuman persuasion skills and Section 2.3.3 on programming and cyber skills.

9

If the AI were less powerful than humans, it would be rational for it to use deception to hide its goals.
In fact, AI deception is already observed in several contexts where it is a logical step towards achieving
some goal (Meinke et al. 2024; Järviniemi and Hubinger 2024; Park et al. 2024). Hence, it would also be
rational for such an AI to fake being aligned with humans (Greenblatt, Denison, et al. 2024) until it has
the ability to achieve its possibly dangerous objectives, a hypothetical event also known as the “treacherous
turn” (Bostrom 2014; Hendrycks, Mazeika, and Woodside 2023), similar to a well-planned coup. Note that
if a self-preserving AI knows that it will be replaced by a new version, this could create urgency for it to
act against us in spite of having no certainty that its plan will work (Meinke et al. 2024). Developers faking
this situation could, in principle, push an AI to reveal its malicious goals by trying to escape this situation,
but this is the kind of experiment that should be done extremely carefully, in a sandboxed environment
(Ruan et al. 2023), as we advance towards AGI. One should keep in mind that as AI capabilities increase,
we see AIs with superhuman abilities in some domains (like mastering 200 languages, beating all humans
at the game of Go, or beating the vast majority of humans at math or programming competitions) but
lacking in others. There may therefore not be a definite “AGI moment”, but rather a steady increase in risks
with the improvement of some dangerous capabilities, like persuasion or hacking. There is a sense in which
these abilities open the door to a richer set of actions in the real world, via humans and digitally controlled
infrastructure.
An AI system limited to a sandboxed computer environment possesses some affordances due to the possibility
of interaction with its human operators (Yudkowsky 2002). We should therefore consider the possibility of
causing harm through these actions. Granting an AI access to the internet significantly widens the space
of possible influence. One may get the wrong impression that limiting the AI’s actions to the internet is a
severe restriction of its affordances, but consider the feats of human hackers and the fact that today, the
leader of an organization could do all their work remotely. Of course, advances in robotics would further
increase available affordances and significantly increase the potential for harm.
If a self-preserving AI agent is useful to us but lacks the intelligence and affordances to disempower us, then
a mutually beneficial deal may be struck, as we do among ourselves. However, again in service of maximizing
the probability of successful self-preservation, such a deal would likely only hold until the AI acquires the
capabilities it needs for a take-over. As discussed in Section 2.2.3, deals between humans tend to work when
there is a sufficient balance of power such that none of the parties can be sure to win in a conflict, but there
may not be such an equilibrium if we design sufficiently intelligent and autonomous AIs.
2.2.3

Negotiation relies on a balance of power

Some believe that future AIs will be benevolent, like most humans. This would certainly be desirable, but
it is not clear how to achieve this with current training techniques, and we will soon see some good reasons
why this might not be the case.
What about a mutually beneficial agreement between AIs and humans? This is a distinct and hopeful
possibility. We have plenty of examples of successful negotiations and collaborations between human groups,
as well as between species (Bronstein 2015). However, this generally works because there is a sufficient mutual
benefit to the collaboration. Even in the relationship between a predator and its prey, the predator cannot
hunt its prey to extinction as it needs the prey for its own survival. But not all ecological power arrangements
work out so nicely for all parties. Suffice it to say that many species have disappeared in Earth’s history,
because such protective circumstances do not always exist (MacPhee 1999). Invasive species may be a more
apt analogy for our purposes: while predator and prey occupy different ecological niches, AI systems are
explicitly designed to occupy ours, by doing things traditionally done by humans. When an invasive species
has significant structural advantages that allow it to outcompete the native species, the native species tends
to find itself in a diminished role, if it survives at all (Mooney and Cleland 2001). Another example is the
current catastrophic mass extinction of living species due to human activities, even without an intention by
humans to cause this biodiversity crisis (Ceballos et al. 2018). The same consequences are real possibilities
for humans if we create agentic ASI: here too is there likely to be an immense power imbalance, without a
mutually beneficial relationship.

10

Consider two self-preserving entities, each of which knows that it can be destroyed by the other (e.g., two
countries with nuclear weapons). If they see that attacking could result in their own demise — mutually
assured destruction — then an arrangement for peace is stable. But what if one of them is more technologically powerful and can find a way to destroy the other with high certainty? Strong imbalances in power
between human groups have generally turned out badly for the underdog. To avoid ending up on the losing
end of such a conflict between humans and ASIs, it is thus imperative that we either choose to not build
ASI agents or find a way to make them safe by design before building them.
2.2.4

Factors driving the development of agentic ASI

Currently, numerous actors are racing towards developing agentic and powerful AI systems, and this is not
happening with sufficient consideration for the risks involved. There are many factors and pressures that
have contributed to this state of affairs, including the profit incentive, national security concerns, and even
psychological factors on the part of AI developers, such as the human propensity to wear blinders so as to
see oneself as being and doing good, and generally have thoughts aligned with our interests (Kunda 1990).
Companies developing frontier AI are competing fiercely to design the best systems due to the huge amount
of commercial value that the most capable AI systems will provide (S. Russell 2022); however, in the long
term, this increases the risk of catastrophe for everyone. We can draw some parallels with the history of
known catastrophic risks to understand why some are willing to take more risks to obtain a competitive
advantage, even if everyone may lose in the end. A clear example is the Cuban Missile Crisis, where both
the U.S. and the Soviet Union were willing to push the world to the brink of nuclear war in order to gain
a strategic advantage. Despite the existential threat, the competition to outmaneuver each other led to
decisions that risked global destruction. Similarly, in the race for powerful AI, the drive for dominance could
lead to decisions that unintentionally endanger all of humanity.
Many frontier AI labs are structured to pursue profit. The vast majority of investment in AI R&D now
comes from private capital (Maslej et al. 2024) and is likely to significantly increase. Indeed, it has been
estimated that the net present value of human-level AI would be on the order of 10 quadrillion US dollars
(S. Russell 2022), i.e., orders of magnitude more than the investment made up to now, leaving room for a
lot more investment in coming years.
AI is increasingly viewed as a matter of national security, with the potential to reshape geopolitical power
dynamics (US Government 2024; Aschenbrenner 2024). Indeed, countries are locked in a high-stakes competition to achieve or maintain military supremacy. Consequently, there is a clear incentive for nations to
develop military applications of AI, striving to maintain a strategic advantage over adversaries (Defense
2019; Clement 2024).
There are other reasons why certain groups are motivated to pursue agentic ASI without a strong safety case,
despite the risks this poses to the future of humanity. Some people intuitively consider the risks insignificant
(Perrigo 2024) compared to the benefits of powerful AI, although we know of no compelling argument to
support such an intuition. Psychological factors such as motivated reasoning (Kunda 1990) may also be at
play. Individuals may be motivated by their own interests, blinded to the risks by confirmation bias or by
the desire to frame one’s decisions as ”the right thing to do”. These interests may be financial, but could
also stem from a positive self-image or from a desire for power. Indeed, it can be argued that advances
in AI could radically increase the concentration of power in society (Bullock et al. 2024). Finally, there
are groups that wish to see AI progress significantly accelerated, with little care given to the risks, in the
pursuit of utopian ideals (Roose 2023). There are even individuals who want to replace humanity with more
intelligent AI (Hendrycks, Mazeika, and Woodside 2023), as they may consider it a “natural” evolution
towards species with greater intelligence, or may greatly value intelligence while caring relatively little about
human flourishing.
Competitive pressures between AI labs and between countries (both economic and military competition) are
not only leading to the creation of ever-more advanced AI systems, but they are also selecting for AIs that
are more agentic and autonomous, and therefore, more dangerous (Hendrycks 2023). This prioritization of

11

self-interest and subsequent acceleration of AI R&D may well lead to self-preserving AIs that eventually
outcompete humans altogether. From a game theory perspective, the only solution to such tragic “games”
is global coordination. The hope is that if we have ways to safely obtain many of the anticipated benefits of
AI, it may be easier to coordinate on global regulations that avoid the most acute risks, since the benefits
can be obtained more safely.
It is time to step back and ask if the current path towards agentic ASI is wise. We are already approaching
human-level capabilities across many tasks (Maslej et al. 2024; Galatzer-Levy et al. 2024) and this progress
shows little sign of slowing down. What are the catastrophic risks in building ASI we do not yet know how
to control? Based on the precautionary principle, shouldn’t we first make sure that our experiments will not
endanger humanity? Do we actually want to build new entities that would be our peers or even our superiors
or do we want to build technology that can serve us? In this paper, we propose that the degree of agency
is an important feature of any AI system which can help us distinguish between the dangerous competitor
and the useful tool.
2.2.5

Risks associated with agentic AIs scale with capabilities and compute

Since more dangerous AI plans require more compute, we can expect that existential risks increase as more
computational resources are devoted to agentic AI development, and we are indeed seeing an acceleration
of such investments (Cottier et al. 2024; OpenAI 2025a). More precisely, the probability of loss of control
may increase simply because such an event requires an AI with sufficient capabilities in key areas (e.g.,
cyber attacks, deception, etc.) to free itself from our control. The severity of a loss-of-control event also
increases with computational power of the AI because some capabilities (such as the design of bioweapons or
the ability to control robots) significantly increase the amount of damage that a rogue AI could inflict. We
stress this point because in Section 3.5.2, we propose to consider ways to reverse this trend such that more
computational resources would generally increase safety, thereby charting a path where further technological
advances are to our benefit rather than our disadvantage.

2.3

Dangerous AI behaviors and capabilities

Supposing the emergence of an ASI agent with a misaligned self-preservation goal, we now try to clarify
some of the AI behaviors (like deception) and skills (like persuasion and programming) that can make loss of
human control dangerous because of the capabilities it would give to the AI to cause harm. How dangerous
misalignment can emerge will be discussed in Section 2.4 and Section 2.5.
We must keep in mind that trying to anticipate the ways in which an ASI might escape our control, disempower, or catastrophically harm us is futile. Just as we cannot predict in advance the exact sequence
of moves today’s superhuman chess AIs can use to defeat us—despite knowing with certainty that they
will win—we cannot predict exactly what an ASI with objectives misaligned with human interests would
do. This unpredictability itself increases risk, as any countermeasures we implement could prove entirely
inadequate, circumvented by strategies we failed to foresee. Nevertheless, we can outline a rough sketch
of rational, high-level steps a rogue ASI might follow. These steps include (1) careful planning, including
resource and skill acquisition; (2) gaining influence in society through means such as manipulation of public
opinion, bribery, and hacking; and (3) ultimately disempowering humanity, for example through the use of
engineered bioweapons (Carter et al. 2023).
To better understand how these steps could materialize, we need to examine the key capabilities that would
enable them. Loss of control could arise from advancements in deception or persuasion, as well as combined expertise in programming, cybersecurity, and AI research—areas that could enable recursive selfimprovement. We discuss these pathways in Sections 2.3.1 to 2.3.3. Broader cognitive abilities and a better
proficiency at long-term planning could also further compound the risk of losing control; this is discussed in
Section 2.3.4. Finally, interactions between multiple ASIs introduce new complexities: collusion, conflict, and
power dynamics between such entities could create scenarios beyond human influence and understanding,
which we discuss in Section 2.3.5.

12

2.3.1

Deception

A crucial ability of an AI agent with misaligned goals is deception: the ability to mislead in order to achieve
one’s goals. Suppose that, by one mechanism or another, humanity happens to produce an AI system
with goals that are not (exclusively) in service of human flourishing. Learning that the AI has potentially
dangerous goals and the ability to reach them, would be a good reason for its human operators to shut
it down. Therefore, a sufficiently intelligent self-preserving AI agent could conclude that there would be a
significant benefit to hiding its intentions, at least until it can escape its operators’ control. For this reason,
it is important to keep track of AI’s capability for deception.
There are already several reports of deceptive behavior in current frontier AIs (Meinke et al. 2024; Järviniemi
and Hubinger 2024; Park et al. 2024), i.e., the most capable existing systems. Researchers are actively
eliciting those circumstances so that we can better understand and prevent them. Just as neuroscientists
look to understand facets of a subject’s cognition via electrical measurements of brain activity, mechanistic
interpretability is an approach to mitigating the risks of deception in AI by identifying internal processes of
AI systems related to honesty and deception (Bereska and Gavves 2024). This approach could prove useful,
but like current capability evaluation methods, while it may detect deceptive behavior, it does not certify a
lack thereof.
What is troubling is that efforts to detect deception in AI without rooting out the agentic traits such as
self-preservation may select for AIs that are good at hiding deceptive tendencies—which is to say, AIs that
are even more deceptive. We have already seen an example of selective compliance: recent work (Greenblatt,
Denison, et al. 2024) has shown that the re-training of an AI model to align with its deployer’s new goals can
be stymied by the AI faking alignment with the new goals while maintaining some allegiance to its previous
goals (see Section 2.5.2 for further discussion). Overall it would be safer if we could build forms of AI that
are not deceptive at all and that produce trustworthy answers by design.
2.3.2

Persuasion and influence

In order to achieve its goals, a useful skill for an AI agent is persuasion: the ability to strongly influence
humans, possibly making them change their mind, even against their own interests. Evaluations of persuasion
abilities already show GPT-4 on par with or stronger than humans (Breum et al. 2024) and the newer o1
model is more capable still (OpenAI 2024c). Many people have the experience of being convinced to do
something they regret later, while under the “spell” of a particularly persuasive person. It may be difficult
to imagine superhuman persuasion, but we can draw an analogy to the ability of an intelligent adult to
convince a child to act in ways that are not in the child’s best interest. Such an advantage may come from
several places: