# FULL TEXT — MasRouter: Learning to Route LLMs for Multi-Agent Systems

https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.11133v1

MasRouter: Learning to Route LLMs for Multi-Agent Systems
Guibin Zhang⋆ † Boyang Liu⋆ † Guancheng Wan♣
Kun Wang♠ Dawei Cheng⋆ Yiyan Qi♦
⋆
Tongji University ♣ Wuhan University ♠ Nanyang Technological University ♦ IDEA
# Primary Contact: edwinmars77@gmail.com
Yanwei Yue⋆ †

Abstract

arXiv:2502.11133v1 [cs.LG] 16 Feb 2025

Multi-agent systems (MAS) powered by Large
Language Models (LLMs) have been demonstrated to push the boundaries of LLM capabilities, yet they often incur significant costs
and face challenges in dynamic LLM selection. Current LLM routing methods effectively
reduce overhead in single-agent scenarios by
customizing LLM selection for each query, but
they overlook the critical decisions regarding
collaboration modes and agent roles in MAS.
In response to this challenge, we first introduce
the problem of Multi-Agent System Routing
(MASR), which integrates all components of
MAS into a unified routing framework. Toward this goal, we propose MasRouter, the
first high-performing, cost-effective, and inductive MASR solution. MasRouter employs
collaboration mode determination, role allocation, and LLM routing through a cascaded
controller network, progressively constructing
a MAS that balances effectiveness and efficiency. Extensive experiments demonstrate that
MasRouter is (1) high-performing, achieving
a 1.8% ∼ 8.2% improvement over the stateof-the-art method on MBPP; (2) economical,
reducing overhead by up to 52.07% compared
to SOTA methods on HumanEval; and (3) plugand-play, seamlessly integrating with mainstream MAS frameworks, reducing overhead
by 17.21% ∼ 28.17% via customized routing. The code is available at https://github.
com/yanweiyue/masrouter.

1

Multi Agent Routing

🤔 Query

🤔 Query

LLM Router

Collaboration
Determiner

Role
Allocator
🖥️
Manager

Star
No one can do
everything!
I need help!

LLM
Router

Programmer

Programmer

Manager

🧮
Scientist

Physicist Scientist

Physicist

But everyone can do something!

Figure 1: Paradigm comparison between single-agent
routing and multi-agent routing.

2023). Building on the impressive capabilities of
single agents, the LLM-based Multi-Agent System (MAS) has been proposed (Park et al., 2023;
Du et al., 2023; Hong et al., 2023) to harness the
collective intelligence and specialized expertise of
multiple agents. As the pool of available LLMs
continues to grow (Chang et al., 2023; Minaee
et al., 2024), how to select the appropriate LLM to
power single agents or MAS has increasingly captured the attention of the research community (Hu
et al., 2024a; akota et al., 2024). One might assume
that, disregarding cost, choosing the largest LLM
would always yield the best performance. However, larger LLMs have been shown to not always
outperform their smaller counterparts (Abdin et al.,
2024; Lepagnol et al., 2024; Shen et al., 2024). At
times, smaller LLMs can achieve superior performance at a lower computational cost. Given this
context, how to dynamically route the most appropriate LLM to empower an agent in a query-aware
manner emerges as a highly compelling problem.
To address this, LLM routing is proposed to intelligently assign the optimal LLM for each query (Hu
et al., 2024a; Srivatsa et al., 2024). Early attempts
employ a router, typically based on encoder models
like BERT (Devlin et al., 2019), to make a binary
decision on whether to select a larger LLM (Chen
et al., 2023a; Ding et al., 2024; Ong et al., 2024).
More recent practices construct a router to assess

Introduction

Recent advances in Large Language Model (LLM)
based agents (Park et al., 2023; Yao et al., 2023;
Richards and et al., 2023) have demonstrated remarkable success across various tasks, including
code generation (Wu et al., 2023; Guo et al., 2024),
mathematical reasoning (Swan et al., 2023; Yu
et al., 2024), and embodied actions (Wang et al.,
†

Single Agent Routing

These authors contributed equally.

1

the performance and cost of multiple LLMs, subsequently selecting the model that optimizes the
trade-off between exploration and exploitation (Dai
et al., 2024; Mohammadshahi et al., 2024; Feng
et al., 2024). Although existing LLM routing methods (Hu et al., 2024a; Stripelis et al., 2024) have
been proven effective in directing the most appropriate LLM for input queries, they are limited
to single-agent scenarios (Wei et al., 2022; Shinn
et al., 2023; Reworkd, 2023) yet not ready for MAS.
However, we argue that the availability of a routing
method for MAS is even more essential. On the
performance perspective, multi-agent systems have
been proven to outperform single-agent approaches
significantly (Chen et al., 2023b; Pina et al., 2023).
On the cost perspective, though impressive in performance, existing multi-agent pipelines inherently
introduce substantial token overhead and increased
economic costs (Zhuge et al., 2024), which further
necessitates the use of routing to mitigate overhead.
In this context, there is a critical need to address
this gap: How can we effectively route LLMs for
MAS to balance performance and costs?
A seemingly intuitive solution is to directly transfer single-agent LLM routing methods to MAS.
However, MAS needs to select the appropriate
agent collaboration modes (Du et al., 2023; Zhang
et al., 2024c) for different tasks and establish a reasonable division of labor (Hong et al., 2023; Zhang
et al., 2023), which previous routing methods fail
to achieve. For example, for software development
tasks, an ideal MAS routing method could design a
hierarchical workflow with sequential steps such as
requirements analysis, algorithm design, code development, and testing, each requiring corresponding role profiles (Ramin et al., 2020; Zingg et al.,
2023). Against this backdrop, we argue that routing in MAS involves more tasks than just LLM
recommendations: ❶ Collaboration Mode Determination: Choosing the optimal communication mechanisms (e.g., Chain (Qian et al., 2023),
Tree (Ishibashi and Nishimura, 2024), Graph (Hao
et al., 2023)) for varying task complexities. This involves identifying the most efficient and adaptable
multi-agent topology (Zhuge et al., 2024; Zhang
et al., 2024a) that minimizes overhead while ensuring flexibility and scalability in more complex
scenarios. ❷ Dynamic Agent Number: Determining the number of expert agents required (Huang
et al., 2024; Aghdam et al., 2024) based on the
difficulty of the input. ❸ Agent Role Allocation:
Selecting suitable role to the agent according to

the query domain (Chen et al., 2023b; Feng et al.,
2024) to ensure efficient task division, creating a
system greater than the sum of its parts (Shang
et al., 2024). ❹Agent LLM Routing: Assigning
each agent the appropriate LLM based on the collaborative topology and the role of each LLM (Feng
et al., 2024).
In light of the scrutinizing challenges, we for
the first time introduce the concept of LLM-based
Multi-Agent
System ::
Routing (MASR):
::
::
:
Multi-Agent Systems Routing (MASR): Given
a pool of available LLMs, collaborative communication modes, and possible agent roles, an
optimal MAS Router for any query q should: (1)
identify appropriate multi-agent collaboration
modes, (2) allocate agent roles efficiently, and
(3) assign the appropriate LLM to each agent,
thereby balancing performance and cost.
The formal definition of MASR is provided in
Section 3. To construct a router that ideally adheres
to the MASR principles, we propose an effective,
token-economical, and inductive LLM-powered
MultiAgent
System
Router, termed MasRouter.
::
:
:
::::::
Technically, MasRouter integrates collaboration
mode determiner, agent role allocator, and agent
LLM router into a unified routing framework: ❶
Collaboration determiner employs a variational
latent variable model to route the user query to a
suitable collaboration module; ❷ Role allocator
progressively generates agent roles through a structured probabilistic cascade; ❸ LLM router models
the LLM backbone recommendation for each agent
as a multinomial distribution problem. Ultimately,
MasRouter constructs a MAS that simultaneously
balances effectiveness and efficiency.
Our contributions can be summarized as follows:
• Problem Definition. We for the first time
formally define Multi-Agent System Routing
(MASR), which specifies the requirements for
MAS routing: assigning the appropriate collaboration mode, agent roles, and LLMs to each
query, thereby improving response quality and
reducing unnecessary overhead.
• Practical Solution. We propose MasRouter,
a modular MASR solution that utilizes a cascaded controller network to construct a highperforming and resource-efficient MAS progressively. Besides, MasRouter can seamlessly integrate with mainstream MAS to achieve efficient
routing with significantly lower inference cost.
• Experimental Validation. Extensive experiments
2

across five benchmarks show that MasRouter is:
(I) high-performing, surpassing RouterDC, the
state-of-the-art routing method, by 3.51% on average; (II) economical, reducing the overhead on
HumanEval from 0.363$ to 0.185$; (III) inductive and plug-and-play, generalizing to unseen
LLM backbones and collaboration modes and
seamlessly combining with mainstream multiagent systems with 17% ∼ 28% ↓ fewer cost.

2

focus on single-agent scenarios, and their unawareness of inter-agent topology constrains their applicability to more complex tasks and limits scalability in larger systems.

3

Formalization

In this section, we formalize our proposed LLMbased Multi-Agent System Routing (MASR) and
introduce its optimization objectives.

Related Work

3.1

Multi-Agent System. Contemporary LLMbased multi-agent systems (MAS) can be broadly
categorized into two paradigms: (1) Fixed agentic
networks with pre-established, manually crafted
architectures, from debate (Chan et al., 2023;
Liang et al., 2023), collaboration (Yin et al., 2023;
Wang et al., 2024) to competetive (Zhao et al.,
2023). MacNet (Qian et al., 2024) systematically analyzed typical multi-agent collaboration
topologies such as chain, tree, graph, etc.; (2)
Dynamic agentic networks that configure their
structure and communication strategies based on
real-time feedback and observations. ADAS (Hu
et al., 2024b) and its follow-up works (Zhang
et al., 2024c; Shang et al., 2024) leverage search
methods such as Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS)
and evolutionary algorithm (Zhang et al., 2025) to
discover effective agent strategies. Other works
like DyLAN (Liu et al., 2023), GPTSwarm (Zhuge
et al., 2024) and AgentPrune (Zhang et al.,
2024a) dynamically optimize the inter-agent
topologies. Nevertheless, contemporary MAS is
often LLM-homogeneous, i.e., relying exclusively
on the same LLM backbone, failing to collectively
organize heterogenous LLM-agents.

Notation Establishment

Search Space. We first define the search space
of a multi-agent system as S = (M, R, T), where
M denotes the pool of Nm available LLM backbones, R represents the set of Nr predefined agent
roles (e.g., analyst, programmer, and tester), and
T denotes the set of Nt collaboration modes, including structures like Chain, Tree, LLM-Debate,
etc. Within the search space, a multi-agent system
instance is defined as follows:
Definition 1 (Multi-Agent System) The MAS S
combines several specific LLM-powered agents
with distinct identities, working together collaboratively:
S = {{Mi }ki=1 , {Ri }ki=1 , T },
Mi ∈ M, Ri ∈ R, T ∈ T,

(1)

where M corresponds to the selected LLM backbones and, similarly, R and T represent the chosen role and collaboration mode respectively. k
denotes the number of the LLM agents.
3.2

Definition of MASR

Based on the MAS defined above, we formalize
Multi-Agent Systems Routing (MASR):

Single LLM Routing Efficient routing strategies
for single LLMs have been extensively explored
to balance computational cost and model performance. Early attempts on LLM routing include
HybridLLM (Ding et al., 2024), RouteLLM (Ong
et al., 2024) and FrugalGPT (Chen et al., 2023a),
which primarily focus on binary routing and
leverage techniques like sequential pipelines or
preference-driven routing to enhance decisionmaking performance. More recent practices, including Rootoo (Dai et al., 2024), C2MAB-V (Mohammadshahi et al., 2024), GraphRouter (Feng
et al., 2024) and RouterDC (Chen et al., 2024) have
shifted towards multi-choice selection frameworks.
However, existing routing methodologies mainly

Definition 2 (MASR) MASR can be represented
by the mapping function f , which maps from S =
(M, R, T) to a MAS S tailored for the query Q:
f :M×R×T→
− S,
n
o

π (S) = P {Mi }ki=1 , {Ri }ki=1 , T | Q , (2)
Mi ∈ M, Ri ∈ R, T ∈ T, S ⊂ S
where π (S) represents the probability of selecting
multi-agent system S, conditioned on Q.
Optimization Objective. Given a benchmark D
consisting of multiple queries Q and corresponding
oracle answers a, the ideal MASR aims to optimize
3

Collaboration Modes

🤔 Query/Problem

Agent Routing
Agent Role & LLM Routing

Collaboration Assignment
Star

Module Encoder

🤖 LLM set

Role Router:

LLM Debate

LLM Router :

The
agent needs a role
to conduct an overall analysis
of this physics problem

Sentence Bert;
MiniLM; ...

Agents

An electric motor has a label on
it that reads: Input: 120V AC, 1.0
Amps, 60 Hz - Efficiency - 75%.
At what constant speed can the
motor lift up a 6 kg mass?

SC Ensemble Macnet(Chain)

Sampling per
Prob.

🎭 Role pool

Collab representation

Roles

Query-specific

Macnet(Star)

Macnet(Chain)

LLM Debate

... ... (Other Collaboration Modes)

Self-Consistency
Ensemble

1

Math
Analyst

2

3

4

Agent Count

5

Programmer Physicist

Test
Engineer

Sampling per
Prob.

LLMs

Physicist Test Engineer

🧰 Collaboration Repo

Difficulty
Measure

...
Programmer Math Analyst

Optimize

6

Mode Prob. Distribution

Collaboration Determiner:

Qwen-math is instruction-tuned on
the math datasets, making it
suitable for tasks as a math analyst.

Debate incurs excessive costs
Chain has achieved a balance

As a physicist, I would
apply the physical
principles to analyze the
query. The key physical
formula is:
and

As a mathematician, I
will follow the physicist's
analysis and perform
calculations step by step:
...

Physicist

Math Analyst

Test Engineer

Programmer

As a test engineer,
As a programmer, I will list
I will verify if the
the code according to the
programmer's code
mathematician's formula to
conforms to the
prevent calculation errors:
problem logic and give
[Python Code]
the checked code:
[Python Code]

Output solution

qwen-math gpt-4o-mini llama3 deepseek-coder

SC is not sufficiently effective

Workflow

▶️Input query
▶️Collaboration Determination
▶️Agent Role Allocation
▶️Agent LLM Routing
▶️Collaborative Reasoning

Collaborative
reasoning

Materials

Solution

to task

Based on the discussions, the answer is a speed
of approximately 1.53 m/s at which the motor
can lift 6 kg mass.

Figure 2: The overall framework of our proposed MasRouter.

a strategy to jointly balance performance and cost.
The objective function is defined as:

U (S; Q, a) −λ · C(S; Q) ,
|
{z
}
|
{z
}
S∈S∼P(S|Q)

max E (Q,a)∼D,

P(S|Q)



U tility

where Fθ represents the controller network parameterized by θ, which takes Q and computes the
underlying distribution of S. O(·|·) denotes the
conditional likelihood of obtaining the solution a
by executing S. Fθ is formulated as follows:
Fθ = Fθm ◦ Fθr ◦ Fθt ,
(5)

(3)

Cost

where P(S|Q) represents the probability distribution of S conditioned on Q. The utility term
U (S; q, a) measures the performance of the MAS,
while the cost term C(S; q) quantifies the expected
cost (e.g., LLM calls, API cost, token cost). λ is a
trade-off parameter.

4

where Fθt : Q → T is the collaboration mode
determiner, Fθr : (Q, T ) → {Ri }ki=1 denotes
the role allocator, and Fθm : (Q, T , {Ri }ki=1 ) →
{Mi }ki=1 represent the LLM backbone router. Inspired by human collaboration (Woolley et al.,
2010; Chen et al., 2023b), MasRouter first constructs a team management framework for the MAS
using Fθt , then recruits suitable talents and defines
the division of tasks using Fθr , and finally endows
each agent with the unique intelligence through
Fθm . For Fθt , since the relationship between collaborative modes and queries is generally difficult
to characterize explicitly, we employ a variational
latent model to capture their underlying semantic
associations:

MasRouter

Figure 2 illustrates the overall framework of
MasRouter. For a given query, MasRouter samples the customized components of the MAS,
through the collaboration determiner (▷ Section 4.1), role allocator (▷ Section 4.2), and agent
LLM router (▷ Section 4.3), together forming a
task-adaptive MAS S. After executing the sampled MAS, MasRouter jointly optimizes the parameters of each selection module based on the
performance/cost feedback (▷ Section 4.4).

Z
Fθt (T | Q) =

4.1

pg (T | H) ph (H | Q) dH, T ∈ T

(6)

Collaboration Mode Determination
where ph (H|Q) denotes the prior probability distribution of the latent representation, and pg (T | H)
decodes the probability of collaborative patterns,
implemented as follows:

Given a query Q, the core objective of MasRouter
is to customize an appropriate MAS from the
search space S based on the complexity and domain of the query, thereby generating a sufficiently
high-quality response:
Z
p(a|Q) = O(a|S) Fθ (S|Q) dS, S ⊂ S, (4)

ph (H | Q) = N (H; µt (Q), diag(σt2 (Q))),
(7)
eT
fψT (Q)H
pg (T | H) ∝ exp(
), τ > 0
τ
4

where µt (·) and σt2 (·) obtains the mean and varie T = gϕ (fψ (T ), H)
ance of H, respectively, and H
embeds the relationship between the query and the
collaborative patterns into the latent space. Here,
fψ : Q → RD is a text encoder (e.g., SentenceBERT (Reimers, 2019), MiniLM (Wang et al.,
2020)) that extracts the semantic information of
the query. gϕ : RD × RD → RD produces the
refined representation of the candidate T .
With Fθt , we have now customized the collaborative patterns for Q. Nevertheless, the number
of agents utilized in T remains undetermined. We
leverage the hidden embedding of the query to derive the number of agents k = ⌈δ(H) · γ⌉, where
δ : RD → [0, 1] is a learnable complexity mapping
function, and γ is the hyperparameter representing
the maximum number of agents.
4.2

4.3

Agent LLM Routing

Each LLMs have its own strengths and drawbacks (Barandoni et al., 2024), and the goal of
LLM routing is to leverage their unique capabilities. For example, for mathematical problems, we
would opt for an LLM that is particularly proficient
in mathematics or one that has been specifically
fine-tuned. Therefore, we posit that assigning an
LLM to a specific agent primarily depends on the
task’s domain and difficulty, as well as their corresponding role. We implement Fθm by computing
the probability of selecting Mi based on the query
and the preceding role routing. It then views the
process of LLM routing for multiple agents as a
multinomial distribution problem:
Fθm ({Mi }ki=1 | Q, T , {Ri }ki=1 )

Agent Role Allocation
=

For a MAS S = {{Mi }ki=1 , {Ri }ki=1 , T }, Section 4.1 has specified T and k. Subsequently, we
will assign the appropriate role Ri to each agent
in S. Roles among different agents often have a
sequential order and interdependencies. For example, we first need a programmer to write the code,
and then a test engineer to validate and debug it.
Correspondingly, the role allocator Fθr formalizes
role generation through a structured probabilistic
cascade:
Fθr ({Ri }ki=1 |Q, T ) =

k
Y

k
n1 ,n2 ,...,nNm

m
Y
(10)
 N
nℓ
·
πm
(Mℓ | Q, T , {Ri }ki=1 ),

ℓ=1


k
k!
where n1 ,n2 ,...,n
is the multi= n1 !n2 !...n
Nm
Nm !
nomial coefficient. It represents the number of
ways to assign k agents to Nm different LLMs,
with the i-th LLM selected ni times. πm denotes
the probability of each LLM being selected in the
global context:
πm (Mℓ |Q, T , {Ri }ki=1 ) ∝ exp(

eM
HTM H
ℓ
),
τ

(11)

πrℓ (Rℓ |Q, {Rj }ℓ−1
j=1 , T ), (8)
Pk

ℓ=1

where πrℓ denotes the probability of generating the
ℓ-th role is based on Q, the selected T , and the
prior ℓ − 1 role profiles. We iteratively compute it
as follows:
πrℓ (Rℓ |Q, T , {Rj }ℓ−1
j=1 ) ∝ exp(

eR
HTRℓ−1 H
ℓ
τ

),

ej
H

e T ∥ j=1 ) aggregates
where HM = FFN(H∥H
k
the embedding of the query, collaborative patterns,
e M = gϕ (fψ (Mℓ ), HM )
and selected roles. H
ℓ
computes the latent representation of each LLM.
e M , the compatibility beBased on HM and H
ℓ
tween each LLM and the constructed system is
obtained, which is proportional to the probability
of selecting Mℓ .
As stated above, we have customized a MAS
for the query. Only one final hurdle is left before achieving end-to-end training: the number
of agents k becomes non-differentiable due to the
rounding operation. To ensure smooth gradient
flow, we replace k with its pre-rounded floatingpoint value and approximate the multinomial coefficient in Equation (10) as follows:

(9)

Rℓ ∈ R, τ > 0,
Pℓ−1 e

e T ∥ j=1 HRj ) dewhere HRℓ−1 = FFN(H∥H
ℓ−1
notes the implicit representation of the accumulated semantics from the role allocation process of
eR =
the first ℓ − 1 roles under the Q and T . H
ℓ
gϕ (fψ (Rℓ ), HRℓ−1 ) captures the dynamic features
exhibited by the current candidate role within the
context of the previously assigned roles. Through
Equation (9), MasRouter progressively determines
the roles for all agents in S. Afterward, the remaining task is to provide each agent with its driving
force by routing to an appropriate LLM backbone.

k
n1 ,n2 ,...,nN


M

≈

Γ(δ(H) · γ + 1)
,
Γ(n1 + 1)Γ(n2 + 1)...Γ(nNM + 1)
(12)

where Γ(·) denotes the Gamma function.
5

Method

Vanilla

CoT (Wei et al., 2022)
ComplexCoT (Fu et al., 2022)
SC(CoT) (Wang et al., 2023a)
SC(ComplexCoT) (Wang et al., 2023a)
Chain (Qian et al., 2024)
Tree (Qian et al., 2024)
Complete Graph (Qian et al., 2024)
LLM-Debate (Du et al., 2023)
GPTSwarm (Zhuge et al., 2024)
Agentprune (Zhang et al., 2024b)
AFlow (Zhang et al., 2024c)
PromptLLM (Feng et al., 2024)
RouteLLM (Ong et al., 2024)
FragalGPT (Chen et al., 2023a)
RouterDC (Chen et al., 2024)
MasRouter (Ours)

LLM
gpt-3.5-turbo
gpt-4o-mini
claude-3.5-haiku
gemini-1.5-flash
llama-3.1-70b
gpt-4o-mini
gemini-1.5-flash
gpt-4o-mini
gemini-1.5-flash
gpt-4o-mini
gemini-1.5-flash
gpt-4o-mini
gemini-1.5-flash
gpt-4o-mini
gemini-1.5-flash
gpt-4o-mini
gemini-1.5-flash
gpt-4o-mini
gemini-1.5-flash
gpt-4o-mini
gemini-1.5-flash
gpt-4o-mini
gemini-1.5-flash
gpt-4o-mini
gemini-1.5-flash
gpt-4o-mini
gemini-1.5-flash
LLM Pool
LLM Pool
LLM Pool
LLM Pool
LLM Pool

Mul.
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
%
%
%
%
!

Rout.
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
!
!
!
!
!

MMLU
69.28
77.81
67.97
80.04
79.08
78.43
81.35
81.05
80.74
81.05
81.66
82.35
82.39
82.01
83.01
82.98
81.74
83.06
81.35
81.04
80.40
82.80
83.22
83.02
83.10
83.10
82.35
78.43
81.04
76.24
82.01
84.25

GSM8K
77.97
93.17
92.16
92.67
92.68
93.68
92.92
93.43
92.01
93.32
93.43
93.94
92.98
94.40
93.13
93.89
94.91
94.66
94.40
94.66
93.98
94.66
93.98
94.89
93.88
92.30
94.91
93.92
93.42
90.76
93.68
95.45

MATH
44.12
66.09
65.89
74.39
60.31
67.24
74.34
67.05
75.11
66.28
74.37
66.86
75.31
64.72
72.10
65.11
71.36
67.63
68.60
64.68
72.45
68.85
73.35
68.45
73.54
73.35
72.70
73.03
71.29
67.05
73.46
75.42

HumanEval
72.05
85.71
86.33
82.61
80.75
86.69
81.37
87.58
80.12
87.58
80.75
88.19
81.99
85.63
82.50
87.50
77.50
85.00
83.75
84.38
79.38
86.28
82.36
86.80
82.55
90.06
85.69
86.33
83.85
87.31
87.75
90.62

MBPP
70.20
72.20
73.40
73.00
68.20
69.60
73.00
75.80
71.80
73.00
72.00
75.80
73.60
75.40
73.20
75.60
73.60
75.20
74.20
73.60
73.40
75.40
74.80
75.40
75.80
82.20
76.00
73.60
72.60
74.40
75.20
84.00

Avg.
66.72
79.00
77.15
80.54
76.20
79.13
80.60
80.98
79.96
80.25
80.44
81.43
81.25
80.43
80.79
81.02
79.82
81.11
80.46
79.67
79.92
81.60
81.54
81.71
81.77
84.20
82.33
81.06
80.44
79.15
82.42
85.93

Table 1: Performance comparison with vanilla, single agent, multi-agent, and single-agent routing methods. The best results are
highlighted in bold, and the runner-ups are underlined. The LLM pool includes the economical and advanced LLMs mentioned
in Section 5.1. "Mul." and "Rout." indicate whether the method supports a multi-agent setting and whether it supports the LLM
routing, respectively. % and ! indicate whether these features are supported.

4.4

GSM8K (Cobbe et al., 2021), MATH (Hendrycks
et al., 2021b), HumanEval (Chen et al., 2021),
MBPP (Austin et al., 2021), covering a diverse
range of reasoning and problem-solving tasks. For
the MATH dataset, we select 519 problems from
different levels using stratified sampling.
Baselines We compare our method with (1)
single-agent approaches, including COT (Wei
et al., 2022), ComplexCoT (Fu et al., 2022),
Self-Consistency (Wang et al., 2023b); (2)
fixed multi-agent topologies including Chain,
Tree, and Complete Graph (formally defined
in (Qian et al., 2024)), LLM-Debate (Chan
et al., 2023); (3) dynamic multi-agent systems
like GPTSwarm (Zhuge et al., 2024), AgentPrune (Zhang et al., 2024b) and AFlow (Zhang
et al., 2024c); (4) single LLM routers including
PromptLLM introduced in (Feng et al., 2024),
RouteLLM (Ong et al., 2024), FrugalGPT (Chen
et al., 2023a) and RouterDC (Chen et al., 2024).
LLM Backbones We select LLMs with
varying sizes and capacities,
including
gpt-4o-mini-0718
(OpenAI,
2024),
claude-3.5-haiku
(Anthropic,
2024),
gemini-1.5-flash (Team et al., 2024) and

Optimization

The optimization objective of MasRouter is presented as follows:


min E(Q,a)∼D, − p(a|Q) + λ · C(S; Q) (13)
θ

S∼Fθ

where C(·) represents the cost evaluation of multiagent systems, and λ is the trade-off parameter.
The term p(a|Q) in Equation (13) corresponds to
Equation (4), which was computed in the previous
sections. Through this optimization objective, we
balance effectiveness and efficiency by maximizing the probability of generating correct solutions
while minimizing token expenditure. Then following standard approaches in multi-agent structure
design (Zhuge et al., 2024; Zhang et al., 2024b),
we apply policy gradient (Williams, 1992) to approximate and optimize Equation (13).
We summarize the notations in Appendix A,
with the algorithmic workflow in Appendix B.

5

Experiments

5.1

Experimental Setup

Dataset
and
Benchmarks We
opt
for MMLU (Hendrycks et al., 2021a),
6

Dataset
MMLU

HumanEval

GSM8K

MMLU

HumanEval

Figure 3: The comparison of the performance and inference cost on the MBPP dataset. Different shapes of
the scatter points represent various types of baselines,
while the different colors of the points indicate the use
of different LLM backbones.

GSM8K

LLM
gpt
MAD
gemini
+MasRouter
gpt
MAD
gemini
+MasRouter
gpt
MAD
gemini
+MasRouter
gpt
MacNet
gemini
+MasRouter
gpt
MacNet
gemini
+MasRouter
gpt
MacNet
gemini
+MasRouter

Performance
81.50
80.94
82.20(↑ 0.70)
86.05
82.95
87.60(↑ 1.55)
94.60
94.40
94.91(↑ 0.31)
82.98
81.74
83.40(↑ 0.36)
86.82
83.72
88.37(↑ 1.55)
94.69
94.31
94.89(↑ 0.20)

Cost
$25.56
$27.02
$19.39
$1.248
$1.526
$1.096
$5.664
$5.492
$4.702
$7.812
$8.482
$5.892
$0.488
$0.568
$0.404
$2.142
$2.016
$1.774

Table 2: Comparison of performance and cost before and after integrating with MasRouter. gpt and
gemini are abbreviations for gpt-4o-mini and
gemini-1.5-flash, respectively. The MacNet
method uses the optimal structure reported in the paper.

llama-3.1-70b (Dubey et al., 2024) as the
llm pool. Deepseek-v3 (DeepSeek-AI et al.,
2024) is used to validate MasRouter’s inductive
capabilities. The temperature is always set as 1.
Implementation Details We set the learning rate
α = 0.01, the temperature τ = 1, the cost
penalty λ ∈ {5, 15, 25} and the num of iteration
K ∈ {5, 10}, the agent’s maximum amount γ = 6.
In the MAS baselines, the number of agents equals
γ. We use all the LLMs mentioned in the LLM
Backbones as the candidate LLM pool for the routing method. The collaboration modes repository
includes CoT, Reflection, self-consistency, LLM
debate, and Macnet (Chain & Complete graph).
The role pool comprises 26 roles with diverse capabilities, such as programmers using compilers and
researchers with access to Wikipedia. The details
of the candidate pools can be found in Appendix E.
5.2

Method

Pareto front of cost-effectiveness on the MBPP
dataset. Compared to AFlow, MasRouter not only
achieves a 1.8% ∼ 8.0% improvement in performance but also reduces the inference overhead by
40.22% ∼ 43.78%.
Training resource-saving. As shown in Table 12, compared to trainable MAS pipelines like
GPTSwarm and AFlow, we achieve savings of
69.57% and 83.51% on the MMLU dataset, respectively. This is because our method does not require
exhaustive traversal and validation of each agentic
structure. We present the detailed cost-performance
data in Appendix D.
5.3 Plug-in to Existing MAS
Considering that contemporary MAS is often LLMhomogeneous, i.e., relying exclusively on a single powerful model like gpt-4o, MasRouter can
serve as a plug-and-play solution, seamlessly assigning an optimal LLM backbone to each agent
within them, resulting in significantly less inference cost and comparable performance. In Table 2,
we combine MasRouter with the well-established
MAS methods MAD (Du et al., 2023) and MacNet.
MasRouter improves the performance of MAD
by 1.55% at pass@1 on the Humaneval dataset
while reducing cost by 17.21% ∼ 28.17%. On
larger datasets, the significant reduction in overhead is even more notable; when integrated with
MAD, MasRouter saves the inference cost by
6.17 ∼ 7.63$ on MMLU. Overall, MasRouter can

Performance & Cost Analysis

In this section, we compare MasRouter with
twenty baselines across five benchmarks. We verify that MasRouter is:
High-performing. The experimental results in
Table 1 demonstrates that MasRouter excels
at constructing an effective multi-agent system.
Specifically, MasRouter achieves the best performance across all of the five datasets, outperforming RouterDC, the SOTA LLM routing method,
by 3.51% on average. On the MBPP dataset,
MasRouter outperforms AgentPrune and AFlow
by 8.20% and 1.80% at pass@1, respectively.
Token-economical. As shown in Figure 3,
MasRouter achieves the best performance on the
7

The max number of agents 𝛾

Figure 5: Sensitivity analysis of MasRouter on HumanEval. The unit of cost per query (right) and performance (left) is 10−3 · $ and pass@1 (%), respectively.

Figure 4: The selected LLM distribution of MasRouter
on MMLU and MATH benchmark.

the appropriate LLM to solve the problem crucial.
Removing C(·) does not significantly impact the
performance, but it disrupts the adaptive capability
of MasRouter to query difficulty, leading to an
increase in overhead by 54.09% and 41.62%.

serve as a plugin to support economical multi-agent
development.
5.4

Inductive Ability Analysis

In this section, we validate that MasRouter can
easily generalize to unseen LLMs without intensive re-training resources. Figure 4 illustrates the
distribution of LLMs selected by MasRouter before and after the addition of Deepseek-v3 on
MMLU and MATH, with the new model being
chosen 12.17% and 27.19% the time, respectively.
By intelligently selecting the new, stronger model,
MasRouter improved the accuracy on MMLU
from 84.25% to 85.40% and also improved the
accuracy on HumanEval from 90.62% to 91.41%.
Dataset

GSM8K

Sensitivity Analysis We analyze the sensitivity
of MasRouter to two core parameters: the maximum number of the agents γ, the cost penalty
coefficient λ in Equation (13). The results are
presented in Figure 5. For the parameter γ, we
observe a significant performance improvement
as γ increases from 2 to 6 (88.50% → 90.62%).
However, further increases from 6 to 10 yield only
marginal performance gains while incurring the
1.5× per-query inference costs. Considering both
performance and cost, we select γ = 6. For the
parameter λ, as λ increases from 5 to 25, we find
that larger values lead MasRouter to favor more
cost-efficient solutions, reducing the overhead by
17.78%, albeit with a slight performance degradation of approximately 1.3%. We balance effectiveness and cost by dynamically adjusting this value.

MATH

Metric

Accuracy
(%)

Cost
($)

Accuracy
(%)

Cost
($)

Vanilla MasRouter

95.45

1.59

75.42

3.58

MasRouter w/o Fθt
MasRouter w/o Fθr
MasRouter w/o Fθm
MasRouter w/o C(·)

93.84
94.70
93.36
95.63

2.38
1.67
1.98
2.45

72.77
73.01
71.08
75.18

4.48
3.63
4.16
5.07

Cost penalty λ

5.6 Case Study
We present a detailed case study and visualization
of the routing process of MasRouter across five
benchmarks. We sincerely refer the readers to Appendix C for details.

Table 3: Ablation study of MasRouter.

5.5 Framework Analysis
Ablation Study We conduct an ablation study on
the four key modules in MasRouter: (1) w/o Fθt ,
which replaces the collaboration determination Fθt
with random selection, (2) w/o Fθr , which replaces
the role allocator Fθr with random selection, (3)
w/o Fθm , which replaces the LLM router Fθr with
random selection, and (4) w/o C(·), which remove
the cost evaluation in Equation (13). As shown in
Table 3, removing the Fθm results in the largest
performance decline by 2.09% and 4.34%. This
is because the performance of the base models on
the dataset varies significantly, making selecting

6

Conclusion

In this paper, we for the first time introduce
Multi-Agent System Routing (MASR), which
aims to intelligently allocate collaboration patterns,
agent roles, and LLMs for each query, thereby
constructing a customized MAS. Based on this
concept, we present MasRouter, the first highperforming, economical, and inductive MASR solution. MasRouter progressively builds a list of
mutually adaptive roles, selects an LLM proficient
8

in the task domain, and ultimately achieves a balance between effectiveness and efficiency. We believe MasRouter paves the way for the automation,
economization, and scalability of MAS, contributing to the development of large-scale collective
intelligence.

haiku and upgraded claude 3.5 sonnet. Technical
report, Anthropic.
Jacob Austin, Augustus Odena, Maxwell Nye, Maarten
Bosma, Henryk Michalewski, David Dohan, Ellen
Jiang, Carrie Cai, Michael Terry, Quoc Le, and
Charles Sutton. 2021. Program synthesis with large
language models. Preprint, arXiv:2108.07732.
Simone Barandoni, Filippo Chiarello, Lorenzo Cascone,
Emiliano Marrale, and Salvatore Puccio. 2024. Automating customer needs analysis: A comparative
study of large language models in the travel industry.
Preprint, arXiv:2404.17975.

References
Marah Abdin, Jyoti Aneja, Hany Awadalla, Ahmed
Awadallah, Ammar Ahmad Awan, Nguyen Bach,
Amit Bahree, Arash Bakhtiari, Jianmin Bao, Harkirat
Behl, Alon Benhaim, Misha Bilenko, Johan Bjorck,
Sébastien Bubeck, Martin Cai, Qin Cai, Vishrav
Chaudhary, Dong Chen, Dongdong Chen, Weizhu
Chen, Yen-Chun Chen, Yi-Ling Chen, Hao Cheng,
Parul Chopra, Xiyang Dai, Matthew Dixon, Ronen Eldan, Victor Fragoso, Jianfeng Gao, Mei Gao,
Min Gao, Amit Garg, Allie Del Giorno, Abhishek
Goswami, Suriya Gunasekar, Emman Haider, Junheng Hao, Russell J. Hewett, Wenxiang Hu, Jamie
Huynh, Dan Iter, Sam Ade Jacobs, Mojan Javaheripi,
Xin Jin, Nikos Karampatziakis, Piero Kauffmann,
Mahoud Khademi, Dongwoo Kim, Young Jin Kim,
Lev Kurilenko, James R. Lee, Yin Tat Lee, Yuanzhi
Li, Yunsheng Li, Chen Liang, Lars Liden, Xihui
Lin, Zeqi Lin, Ce Liu, Liyuan Liu, Mengchen Liu,
Weishung Liu, Xiaodong Liu, Chong Luo, Piyush
Madan, Ali Mahmoudzadeh, David Majercak, Matt
Mazzola, Caio César Teodoro Mendes, Arindam Mitra, Hardik Modi, Anh Nguyen, Brandon Norick,
Barun Patra, Daniel Perez-Becker, Thomas Portet,
Reid Pryzant, Heyang Qin, Marko Radmilac, Liliang
Ren, Gustavo de Rosa, Corby Rosset, Sambudha Roy,
Olatunji Ruwase, Olli Saarikivi, Amin Saied, Adil
Salim, Michael Santacroce, Shital Shah, Ning Shang,
Hiteshi Sharma, Yelong Shen, Swadheen Shukla, Xia
Song, Masahiro Tanaka, Andrea Tupini, Praneetha
Vaddamanu, Chunyu Wang, Guanhua Wang, Lijuan
Wang, Shuohang Wang, Xin Wang, Yu Wang, Rachel
Ward, Wen Wen, Philipp Witte, Haiping Wu, Xiaoxia
Wu, Michael Wyatt, Bin Xiao, Can Xu, Jiahang Xu,
Weijian Xu, Jilong Xue, Sonali Yadav, Fan Yang,
Jianwei Yang, Yifan Yang, Ziyi Yang, Donghan Yu,
Lu Yuan, Chenruidong Zhang, Cyril Zhang, Jianwen
Zhang, Li Lyna Zhang, Yi Zhang, Yue Zhang, Yunan
Zhang, and Xiren Zhou. 2024. Phi-3 technical report:
A highly capable language model locally on your
phone. Preprint, arXiv:2404.14219.

Chi-Min Chan, Weize Chen, Yusheng Su, Jianxuan Yu,
Wei Xue, Shanghang Zhang, Jie Fu, and Zhiyuan Liu.
2023. ChatEval: Towards Better LLM-based Evaluators through Multi-Agent Debate. arXiv e-prints.
Yupeng Chang, Xu Wang, Jindong Wang, Yuan Wu,
Linyi Yang, Kaijie Zhu, Hao Chen, Xiaoyuan Yi,
Cunxiang Wang, Yidong Wang, Wei Ye, Yue Zhang,
Yi Chang, Philip S. Yu, Qiang Yang, and Xing Xie.
2023. A survey on evaluation of large language models. Preprint, arXiv:2307.03109.
Lingjiao Chen, Matei Zaharia, and James Zou. 2023a.
Frugalgpt: How to use large language models while
reducing cost and improving performance. Preprint,
arXiv:2305.05176.
Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming
Yuan, Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto, Jared Kaplan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph,
Greg Brockman, Alex Ray, Raul Puri, Gretchen
Krueger, Michael Petrov, Heidy Khlaaf, Girish Sastry, Pamela Mishkin, Brooke Chan, Scott Gray,
Nick Ryder, Mikhail Pavlov, Alethea Power, Lukasz
Kaiser, Mohammad Bavarian, Clemens Winter,
Philippe Tillet, Felipe Petroski Such, Dave Cummings, Matthias Plappert, Fotios Chantzis, Elizabeth Barnes, Ariel Herbert-Voss, William Hebgen Guss, Alex Nichol, Alex Paino, Nikolas Tezak,
Jie Tang, Igor Babuschkin, Suchir Balaji, Shantanu Jain, William Saunders, Christopher Hesse, Andrew N. Carr, Jan Leike, Josh Achiam, Vedant Misra,
Evan Morikawa, Alec Radford, Matthew Knight,
Miles Brundage, Mira Murati, Katie Mayer, Peter
Welinder, Bob McGrew, Dario Amodei, Sam McCandlish, Ilya Sutskever, and Wojciech Zaremba. 2021.
Evaluating large language models trained on code.
Shuhao Chen, Weisen Jiang, Baijiong Lin, James T
Kwok, and Yu Zhang. 2024. Routerdc: Querybased router by dual contrastive learning for assembling large language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2409.19886.

Maryam Akhavan Aghdam, Hongpeng Jin, and Yanzhao
Wu. 2024. Da-moe: Towards dynamic expert allocation for mixture-of-experts models. Preprint,
arXiv:2409.06669.
Marija akota, Maxime Peyrard, and Robert West. 2024.
Fly-swat or cannon? cost-effective language model
choice via meta-modeling. In Proceedings of the
17th ACM International Conference on Web Search
and Data Mining, WSDM ’24, page 606–615. ACM.

Weize Chen, Yusheng Su, Jingwei Zuo, Cheng Yang,
Chenfei Yuan, Chen Qian, Chi-Min Chan, Yujia Qin,
Yaxi Lu, Ruobing Xie, Zhiyuan Liu, Maosong Sun,
and Jie Zhou. 2023b. Agentverse: Facilitating multiagent collaboration and exploring emergent behaviors in agents. Preprint, arXiv:2308.10848.

Anthropic. 2024. Model card addendum: Claude 3.5

9

Karl Cobbe, Vineet Kosaraju, Mohammad Bavarian,
Mark Chen, Heewoo Jun, Lukasz Kaiser, Matthias
Plappert, Jerry Tworek, Jacob Hilton, Reiichiro
Nakano, Christopher Hesse, and John Schulman.
2021. Training verifiers to solve math word problems. arXiv prepring, abs/2110.14168.

Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and
Kristina Toutanova. 2019. Bert: Pre-training of deep
bidirectional transformers for language understanding. Preprint, arXiv:1810.04805.
Dujian Ding, Ankur Mallick, Chi Wang, Robert Sim,
Subhabrata Mukherjee, Victor Ruhle, Laks V. S. Lakshmanan, and Ahmed Hassan Awadallah. 2024. Hybrid llm: Cost-efficient and quality-aware query routing. Preprint, arXiv:2404.14618.

Xiangxiang Dai, Jin Li, Xutong Liu, Anqi Yu, and
John C. S. Lui. 2024. Cost-effective online multillm selection with versatile reward models. Preprint,
arXiv:2405.16587.

Yilun Du, Shuang Li, Antonio Torralba, Joshua B.
Tenenbaum, and Igor Mordatch. 2023. Improving
factuality and reasoning in language models through
multiagent debate. CoRR, abs/2305.14325.

DeepSeek-AI, Aixin Liu, Bei Feng, Bing Xue, Bingxuan Wang, Bochao Wu, Chengda Lu, Chenggang
Zhao, Chengqi Deng, Chenyu Zhang, Chong Ruan,
Damai Dai, Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Deli Chen,
Dongjie Ji, Erhang Li, Fangyun Lin, Fucong Dai,
Fuli Luo, Guangbo Hao, Guanting Chen, Guowei
Li, H. Zhang, Han Bao, Hanwei Xu, Haocheng
Wang, Haowei Zhang, Honghui Ding, Huajian Xin,
Huazuo Gao, Hui Li, Hui Qu, J. L. Cai, Jian Liang,
Jianzhong Guo, Jiaqi Ni, Jiashi Li, Jiawei Wang,
Jin Chen, Jingchang Chen, Jingyang Yuan, Junjie
Qiu, Junlong Li, Junxiao Song, Kai Dong, Kai Hu,
Kaige Gao, Kang Guan, Kexin Huang, Kuai Yu, Lean
Wang, Lecong Zhang, Lei Xu, Leyi Xia, Liang Zhao,
Litong Wang, Liyue Zhang, Meng Li, Miaojun Wang,
Mingchuan Zhang, Minghua Zhang, Minghui Tang,
Mingming Li, Ning Tian, Panpan Huang, Peiyi Wang,
Peng Zhang, Qiancheng Wang, Qihao Zhu, Qinyu
Chen, Qiushi Du, R. J. Chen, R. L. Jin, Ruiqi Ge,
Ruisong Zhang, Ruizhe Pan, Runji Wang, Runxin
Xu, Ruoyu Zhang, Ruyi Chen, S. S. Li, Shanghao
Lu, Shangyan Zhou, Shanhuang Chen, Shaoqing Wu,
Shengfeng Ye, Shengfeng Ye, Shirong Ma, Shiyu
Wang, Shuang Zhou, Shuiping Yu, Shunfeng Zhou,
Shuting Pan, T. Wang, Tao Yun, Tian Pei, Tianyu Sun,
W. L. Xiao, Wangding Zeng, Wanjia Zhao, Wei An,
Wen Liu, Wenfeng Liang, Wenjun Gao, Wenqin Yu,
Wentao Zhang, X. Q. Li, Xiangyue Jin, Xianzu Wang,
Xiao Bi, Xiaodong Liu, Xiaohan Wang, Xiaojin Shen,
Xiaokang Chen, Xiaokang Zhang, Xiaosha Chen,
Xiaotao Nie, Xiaowen Sun, Xiaoxiang Wang, Xin
Cheng, Xin Liu, Xin Xie, Xingchao Liu, Xingkai Yu,
Xinnan Song, Xinxia Shan, Xinyi Zhou, Xinyu Yang,
Xinyuan Li, Xuecheng Su, Xuheng Lin, Y. K. Li,
Y. Q. Wang, Y. X. Wei, Y. X. Zhu, Yang Zhang, Yanhong Xu, Yanhong Xu, Yanping Huang, Yao Li, Yao
Zhao, Yaofeng Sun, Yaohui Li, Yaohui Wang, Yi Yu,
Yi Zheng, Yichao Zhang, Yifan Shi, Yiliang Xiong,
Ying He, Ying Tang, Yishi Piao, Yisong Wang, Yixuan Tan, Yiyang Ma, Yiyuan Liu, Yongqiang Guo,
Yu Wu, Yuan Ou, Yuchen Zhu, Yuduan Wang, Yue
Gong, Yuheng Zou, Yujia He, Yukun Zha, Yunfan
Xiong, Yunxian Ma, Yuting Yan, Yuxiang Luo, Yuxiang You, Yuxuan Liu, Yuyang Zhou, Z. F. Wu, Z. Z.
Ren, Zehui Ren, Zhangli Sha, Zhe Fu, Zhean Xu,
Zhen Huang, Zhen Zhang, Zhenda Xie, Zhengyan
Zhang, Zhewen Hao, Zhibin Gou, Zhicheng Ma, Zhigang Yan, Zhihong Shao, Zhipeng Xu, Zhiyu Wu,
Zhongyu Zhang, Zhuoshu Li, Zihui Gu, Zijia Zhu,
Zijun Liu, Zilin Li, Ziwei Xie, Ziyang Song, Ziyi
Gao, and Zizheng Pan. 2024. Deepseek-v3 technical
report. Preprint, arXiv:2412.19437.

Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri, Abhinav Pandey,
Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad Al-Dahle, Aiesha Letman,
Akhil Mathur, Alan Schelten, Amy Yang, Angela
Fan, et al. 2024. The llama 3 herd of models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2407.21783.
Tao Feng, Yanzhen Shen, and Jiaxuan You. 2024.
Graphrouter: A graph-based router for llm selections.
Preprint, arXiv:2410.03834.
Yao Fu, Hao Peng, Ashish Sabharwal, Peter Clark, and
Tushar Khot. 2022. Complexity-based prompting for
multi-step reasoning. In The Eleventh International
Conference on Learning Representations.
Daya Guo, Qihao Zhu, Dejian Yang, Zhenda Xie, Kai
Dong, Wentao Zhang, Guanting Chen, Xiao Bi,
Y. Wu, Y. K. Li, Fuli Luo, Yingfei Xiong, and Wenfeng Liang. 2024. Deepseek-coder: When the large
language model meets programming – the rise of
code intelligence. Preprint, arXiv:2401.14196.
Rui Hao, Linmei Hu, Weijian Qi, Qingliu Wu, Yirui
Zhang, and Liqiang Nie. 2023. Chatllm network:
More brains, more intelligence.
Dan Hendrycks, Collin Burns, Steven Basart, Andy
Zou, Mantas Mazeika, Dawn Song, and Jacob Steinhardt. 2021a. Measuring massive multitask language
understanding. Proceedings of the International
Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR).
Dan Hendrycks, Collin Burns, Saurav Kadavath, Akul
Arora, Steven Basart, Eric Tang, Dawn Song, and
Jacob Steinhardt. 2021b. Measuring mathematical
problem solving with the math dataset. NeurIPS.
Sirui Hong, Xiawu Zheng, Jonathan Chen, Yuheng
Cheng, Jinlin Wang, Ceyao Zhang, Zili Wang, Steven
Ka Shing Yau, Zijuan Lin, Liyang Zhou, Chenyu Ran,
Lingfeng Xiao, and Chenglin Wu. 2023. Metagpt:
Meta programming for multi-agent collaborative
framework.
Qitian Jason Hu, Jacob Bieker, Xiuyu Li, Nan Jiang,
Benjamin Keigwin, Gaurav Ranganath, Kurt Keutzer,
and Shriyash Kaustubh Upadhyay. 2024a. Routerbench: A benchmark for multi-llm routing system.
Preprint, arXiv:2403.12031.

10

Shengran Hu, Cong Lu, and Jeff Clune. 2024b. Automated Design of Agentic Systems. arXiv preprint.
ArXiv:2408.08435.

Chen Qian, Xin Cong, Cheng Yang, Weize Chen,
Yusheng Su, Juyuan Xu, Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong
Sun. 2023. Communicative agents for software development. 25 pages, 9 figures, 2 tables.

Quzhe Huang, Zhenwei An, Nan Zhuang, Mingxu Tao,
Chen Zhang, Yang Jin, Kun Xu, Kun Xu, Liwei Chen,
Songfang Huang, and Yansong Feng. 2024. Harder
tasks need more experts: Dynamic routing in moe
models. Preprint, arXiv:2403.07652.

Chen Qian, Zihao Xie, Yifei Wang, Wei Liu, Yufan Dang, Zhuoyun Du, Weize Chen, Cheng Yang,
Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong Sun. 2024. Scaling
large-language-model-based multi-agent collaboration. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.07155.

Yoichi Ishibashi and Yoshimasa Nishimura. 2024. Selforganized agents: A llm multi-agent framework toward ultra large-scale code generation and optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.02183.

Frederike Ramin, Christoph Matthies, and Ralf Teusner.
2020. More than code: Contributions in scrum
software engineering teams. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/ACM 42nd International Conference on
Software Engineering Workshops, ICSE ’20, page
137–140. ACM.

Pierre Lepagnol, Thomas Gerald, Sahar Ghannay,
Christophe Servan, and Sophie Rosset. 2024. Small
language models are good too: An empirical
study of zero-shot classification. In Proceedings
of the 2024 Joint International Conference on
Computational Linguistics, Language Resources
and Evaluation (LREC-COLING 2024), pages
14923–14936, Torino, Italia. ELRA and ICCL.

N Reimers. 2019. Sentence-bert: Sentence embeddings using siamese bert-networks. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1908.10084.
Reworkd. 2023. Agentgpt. https://github.com/
reworkd/AgentGPT.

Tian Liang, Zhiwei He, Wenxiang Jiao, Xing Wang,
Yan Wang, Rui Wang, Yujiu Yang, Zhaopeng Tu, and
Shuming Shi. 2023. Encouraging divergent thinking
in large language models through multi-agent debate.
Work in progress.

Toran Bruce Richards and et al. 2023. Auto-gpt: An autonomous gpt-4 experiment. https://github.com/
Significant-Gravitas/Auto-GPT.
Yu Shang, Yu Li, Keyu Zhao, Likai Ma, Jiahe Liu,
Fengli Xu, and Yong Li. 2024. Agentsquare: Automatic llm agent search in modular design space.
Preprint, arXiv:2410.06153.

Zijun Liu, Yanzhe Zhang, Peng Li, Yang Liu, and Diyi
Yang. 2023. Dynamic llm-agent network: An llmagent collaboration framework with agent team optimization. CoRR, abs/2310.02170.

Weizhou Shen, Chenliang Li, Hongzhan Chen, Ming
Yan, Xiaojun Quan, Hehong Chen, Ji Zhang, and Fei
Huang. 2024. Small llms are weak tool learners: A
multi-llm agent. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.07324.

Shervin Minaee, Tomas Mikolov, Narjes Nikzad,
Meysam Chenaghlu, Richard Socher, Xavier Amatriain, and Jianfeng Gao. 2024. Large language
models: A survey. Preprint, arXiv:2402.06196.

Noah Shinn, Beck Labash, and Ashwin Gopinath.
2023. Reflexion: an autonomous agent with dynamic memory and self-reflection. arXiv preprint,
abs/2303.11366.

Alireza Mohammadshahi, Arshad Rafiq Shaikh, and
Majid Yazdani. 2024. Routoo: Learning to route
to large language models effectively. Preprint,
arXiv:2401.13979.

KV Aditya Srivatsa, Kaushal Kumar Maurya, and Ekaterina Kochmar. 2024. Harnessing the power of
multiple minds: Lessons learned from llm routing.
Preprint, arXiv:2405.00467.

Isaac Ong, Amjad Almahairi, Vincent Wu, Wei-Lin Chiang, Tianhao Wu, Joseph E. Gonzalez, M Waleed
Kadous, and Ion Stoica. 2024. Routellm: Learning to route llms with preference data. Preprint,
arXiv:2406.18665.

Joon Sung Park, Joseph C. O’Brien, Carrie J. Cai,
Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and Michael S.
Bernstein. 2023. Generative agents: Interactive simulacra of human behavior.

Dimitris Stripelis, Zhaozhuo Xu, Zijian Hu, Alay Dilipbhai Shah, Han Jin, Yuhang Yao, Jipeng Zhang,
Tong Zhang, Salman Avestimehr, and Chaoyang He.
2024. TensorOpera router: A multi-model router
for efficient LLM inference. In Proceedings of the
2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing: Industry Track, pages 452–
462, Miami, Florida, US. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Rafael Pina, Varuna De Silva, and Corentin Artaud. 2023. Discovering causality for efficient
cooperation in multi-agent environments. CoRR,
abs/2306.11846.

Melanie Swan, Takashi Kido, Eric Roland, and Renato P.
dos Santos. 2023. Math agents: Computational infrastructure, mathematical embedding, and genomics.
Preprint, arXiv:2307.02502.

OpenAI. 2024. Gpt-4o mini: Advancing cost-efficient
intelligence.

11

Gemini Team, Petko Georgiev, Ving Ian Lei, Ryan
Burnell, Libin Bai, Anmol Gulati, Garrett Tanzer,
Damien Vincent, Zhufeng Pan, Shibo Wang, et al.
2024. Gemini 1.5: Unlocking multimodal understanding across millions of tokens of context.
Preprint, arXiv:2403.05530.

Zhangyue Yin, Qiushi Sun, Cheng Chang, Qipeng
Guo, Junqi Dai, Xuanjing Huang, and Xipeng Qiu.
2023. Exchange-of-thought: Enhancing large language model capabilities through cross-model communication. Preprint, arXiv:2312.01823.
Longhui Yu, Weisen Jiang, Han Shi, Jincheng Yu,
Zhengying Liu, Yu Zhang, James T. Kwok, Zhenguo Li, Adrian Weller, and Weiyang Liu. 2024.
Metamath: Bootstrap your own mathematical
questions for large language models. Preprint,
arXiv:2309.12284.

Guanzhi Wang, Yuqi Xie, Yunfan Jiang, Ajay Mandlekar, Chaowei Xiao, Yuke Zhu, Linxi Fan, and
Anima Anandkumar. 2023. Voyager: An OpenEnded Embodied Agent with Large Language Models. arXiv e-prints, arXiv:2305.16291.

Guibin Zhang, Kaijie Chen, Guancheng Wan, Heng
Chang, Hong Cheng, Kun Wang, Shuyue Hu, and Lei
Bai. 2025. Evoflow: Evolving diverse agentic workflows on the fly. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.07373.

Wenhui Wang, Furu Wei, Li Dong, Hangbo Bao, Nan
Yang, and Ming Zhou. 2020. Minilm: Deep selfattention distillation for task-agnostic compression
of pre-trained transformers. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 33:5776–5788.

Guibin Zhang, Yanwei Yue, Zhixun Li, Sukwon Yun,
Guancheng Wan, Kun Wang, Dawei Cheng, Jeffrey Xu Yu, and Tianlong Chen. 2024a. Cut
the crap: An economical communication pipeline
for llm-based multi-agent systems.
Preprint,
arXiv:2410.02506.

Xuezhi Wang, Jason Wei, Dale Schuurmans, Quoc V Le,
Ed H. Chi, Sharan Narang, Aakanksha Chowdhery,
and Denny Zhou. 2023a. Self-consistency improves
chain of thought reasoning in language models. In
The Eleventh International Conference on Learning
Representations.
Xuezhi Wang, Jason Wei, Dale Schuurmans, Quoc V.
Le, Ed H. Chi, Sharan Narang, Aakanksha Chowdhery, and Denny Zhou. 2023b. Self-consistency improves chain of thought reasoning in language models. In ICLR. OpenReview.net.

Guibin Zhang, Yanwei Yue, Zhixun Li, Sukwon Yun,
Guancheng Wan, Kun Wang, Dawei Cheng, Jeffrey Xu Yu, and Tianlong Chen. 2024b. Cut
the crap: An economical communication pipeline
for llm-based multi-agent systems. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.02506.

Zhenhailong Wang, Shaoguang Mao, Wenshan Wu, Tao
Ge, Furu Wei, and Heng Ji. 2024. Unleashing the
emergent cognitive synergy in large language models: A task-solving agent through multi-persona selfcollaboration. In NAACL. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jiayi Zhang, Jinyu Xiang, Zhaoyang Yu, Fengwei Teng,
Xionghui Chen, Jiaqi Chen, Mingchen Zhuge, Xin
Cheng, Sirui Hong, Jinlin Wang, Bingnan Zheng,
Bang Liu, Yuyu Luo, and Chenglin Wu. 2024c.
AFlow: Automating Agentic Workflow Generation.
arXiv preprint. ArXiv:2410.10762.

Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten
Bosma, Brian Ichter, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc Le, and
Denny Zhou. 2022. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models.

Jintian Zhang, Xin Xu, and Shumin Deng. 2023. Exploring collaboration mechanisms for llm agents:
A social psychology view.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.02124.

Ronald J Williams. 1992. Simple statistical gradientfollowing algorithms for connectionist reinforcement
learning. Machine learning, 8:229–256.

Qinlin Zhao, Jindong Wang, Yixuan Zhang, Yiqiao Jin,
Kaijie Zhu, Hao Chen, and Xing Xie. 2023. Competeai: Understanding the competition behaviors in
large language model-based agents. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.17512.

Anita Williams Woolley, Christopher F. Chabris, Alex
Pentland, Nada Hashmi, and Thomas W. Malone.
2010. Evidence for a collective intelligence factor in the performance of human groups. Science,
330(6004):686–688.

Mingchen Zhuge, Wenyi Wang, Louis Kirsch,
Francesco Faccio, Dmitrii Khizbullin, and Jürgen
Schmidhuber. 2024. Gptswarm: Language agents
as optimizable graphs. In Forty-first International
Conference on Machine Learning.

Qingyun Wu, Gagan Bansal, Jieyu Zhang, Yiran Wu,
Shaokun Zhang, Erkang Zhu, Beibin Li, Li Jiang,
Xiaoyun Zhang, and Chi Wang. 2023. Autogen: Enabling next-gen llm applications via multi-agent conversation framework.

Christian Zingg, Alexander von Gernler, Carsten Arzig,
Frank Schweitzer, and Christoph Gote. 2023. Detecting and optimising team interactions in software
development. Preprint, arXiv:2302.14609.

Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak
Shafran, Karthik R Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. 2023.
React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language
models. In The Eleventh International Conference
on Learning Representations.

A

Notations

We conclude the commonly used notations in Table 4 for reference.
12

Notation
S = {M, R, T}
M
R
T
k
S = {{Mi }ki=1 , {Ri }ki=1 , T }
Mi
Ri
Q
a
f :M×R×T →S
π(S)
U (S; Q, a)
C(S; Q)
λ
Fθ = Fθt ◦ Fθr ◦ Fθm
H
H̃τ
τ
γ
p(a|Q)
Γ(z)
δ(H)
fψ (·)
gϕ (·)

Definition
Candidate space containing LLM pool M, roles set R, and collaboration modes set T
Pool of available LLM backbones
Set of predefined agent roles (e.g., Analyst, Developer, Tester)
Set of collaboration modes (e.g., Chain, Tree, Debate)
Number of agents in the multi-agent system
Multi-agent system with LLMs Mi , roles Ri , and collaboration mode T
Selected LLM backbone for the i-th agent
Selected role for the i-th agent
Input query to the multi-agent system
Oracle answer corresponding to the query Q
MASR mapping function assigning components to queries
Probability of selecting system S given query Q
Utility function measuring MAS performance
Cost function quantifying token expenditure
Trade-off parameter between utility and cost
Controller network for collaboration, role allocation, and LLM routing
Latent variable capturing query-collaboration semantics
Refined representation of the candidate collaboration mode T
Temperature parameter in probability decoding
Hyperparameter for maximum number of agents
Conditional likelihood of generating answer a via MAS
Gamma function approximating non-integer factorials
Complexity mapping function 