# FULL TEXT — UXAgent: An LLM Agent-Based Usability Testing Framework for Web Design

https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.12561v3

arXiv:2502.12561v3 [cs.HC] 5 Apr 2025

UXAgent: An LLM-Agent-Based Usability Testing Framework for
Web Design
Yuxuan Lu∗

Bingsheng Yao

Hansu Gu

Northeastern University
USA

Northeastern University
USA

Amazon
USA

Jing Huang

Zheshen (Jessie) Wang

Yang Li

Amazon
USA

Amazon
USA

Amazon
USA

Jiri Gesi

Qi He

Toby Jia-Jun Li

Amazon
USA

Amazon
USA

University of Notre Dame
USA

Dakuo Wang
Northeastern University
USA

LLM-based Experiment Simulator
Persona

Generator

age,

gender, ...

LLM Agent

click

search_button
simplified html

Universal

Browser

Connector

click

(430,211)

Chrome

raw html

Action Trace
Memory (Reasoning) Trace

Result Viewer

Video Recording
Final Outcome

UX Researcher

Chat Interface

Figure 1: UXAgent System Design. An UX researcher can use the persona generator to generate thousands of user personas and
feed them into the LLM Agent. The LLM Agent interacts with the target web design through a Universal Browser Connector.
Collected multimodal data are presented to the UX researcher through a Result Viewer.

Abstract
Usability testing is a fundamental yet challenging research method
for user experience (UX) researchers to evaluate a web design. Recent advances in Large Language Model-simulated Agent (LLM
Agent) research inspired us to design UXAgent to support UX
researchers in evaluating and reiterating their usability testing
study design before they conduct the real human-subject study.
∗ This work was done when Yuxuan was an intern, and Dakuo was a visiting scholar

Our system features an LLM Agent module and a universal browser
connector module so that UX researchers can automatically generate thousands of simulated users to test the target website. The
system can generate UX study results in qualitative (e.g., interviewing how an agent thinks), quantitative (e.g., # of actions), and video
recording formats for UX researchers to analyze. Through a heuristic user evaluation with five UX researchers, participants praised
the innovation of our system but also expressed concerns about the
future of UX study with LLM Agents1 .

at Amazon. Contact email: {lu.yuxuan, d.wang}@northeastern.edu
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for third-party components of this work must be honored.
For all other uses, contact the owner/author(s).
CHI EA ’25, April 26-May 1, 2025, Yokohama, Japan
© 2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-1395-8/2025/04
https://doi.org/10.1145/3706599.3719729

CCS Concepts
• Human-centered computing → Empirical studies in HCI;
Interactive systems and tools.

1 Our demo and code is available at https://uxagent.hailab.io

CHI EA ’25, April 26-May 1, 2025, Yokohama, Japan

Keywords
Usability Testing, User Simulation, Large Language Models, Simulated Agents
ACM Reference Format:
Yuxuan Lu, Bingsheng Yao, Hansu Gu, Jing Huang, Zheshen (Jessie) Wang,
Yang Li, Jiri Gesi, Qi He, Toby Jia-Jun Li, and Dakuo Wang. 2025. UXAgent:
An LLM-Agent-Based Usability Testing Framework for Web Design. In
Extended Abstracts of the CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing
Systems (CHI EA ’25), April 26-May 1, 2025, Yokohama, Japan. ACM, New
York, NY, USA, 12 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3706599.3719729

1

Introduction

Usability testing is a fundamental research method for evaluating
the user experience (UX) of a new feature or a new web page design [31]. Typically, the UX researcher (or a UI/UX designer, product
manager, etc.) leads the design and execution of a usability testing study: they start with a designed new feature, and they need
to come up with an experiment design (e.g. A/B testing and the
user tasks), recruit participants, execute the study, collect, and analyze the data. However, the current process of usability testing
often faces challenges, especially in the experiment design stage
and the participant recruitment stage [9, 12, 15, 22]. In the experiment design stage, it is hard for UX researchers to evaluate and
gather early feedback on their experiment design. After days
(or weeks) of experiments, an ill-designed experiment design cannot yield useful results to support the feature design iteration [31].
Another common challenge is that UX researchers often find it
difficult to recruit enough qualified participants, especially
when the target users are from a narrowly defined user group. We
all acknowledge that an ill-designed experiment is irresponsible to
human participants, as it ultimately wastes their valuable time. But
how can we help UX researchers gather early feedback on their
study design so that they can iterate it to be more responsible for
the human participants?
With the advancement of Large-Language Models (LLMs), some
researchers have prompted LLMs to act as autonomous agents
(i.e., LLM Agent) that can perceive the environment and generate
human-like actions to interact with the environment [37]. LLM
Agents have been successfully used in various scenarios, e.g. simulating a group of 25 agents living in a village [23], simulating
participants in a social science study [11, 16, 24, 28], acting as patients and clinicians in a hospital [18], and acting as employees of a
software developing company [26]. The most notable effort is that
Park et al. [23] illustrated a simulated town with 25 LLM Agents,
who can interact with each other and with the surrounding environment; this work argues that LLM Agents can generate “believable”
human-like behaviors and reasonings, where “believable” implies
that the agents “appear to make decisions and act on their own
volition” like a real human [4, 23]. For instance, WebAgent [10]
and Claude’s Computer-Use API2 are two recent examples where
researchers allowed the model to interact with external environments to complete tasks such as information retrieval and question
answering. Although these works enable LLMs to interact with
external environments (e.g., a webpage), they do not focus on the
simulation of diverse user behaviors like real human users. For
2 https://www.anthropic.com/news/3-5-models-and-computer-use

Lu et al.

example, in the scenario of online shopping, these LLM Agents are
optimized to make the final purchase using the most optimized
path with the least action steps, while human users often have a
twisted shopping path with lots of seemingly wasted action steps
along the way.
Our project explores the possibility of utilizing LLM Agents’
capabilities (i.e., simulating human behaviors and reasoning processes) to support UX researchers for web design. The usability
testing guideline[1] poses the following design requirements for
our system: 1) the system should be able to interact with any web
environment with minimal or no customization (easy-to-use and
generalization), 2) the system should be able to produce both
quantitative and qualitative usability data (e.g., interviews,
questionnaires, or even video recordings) so that the researcher
can use their familiar analysis methods, and 3) the system should
balance group representativeness and individual uniqueness
(e.g., the female LLM Agent group and a single agent named Mary
Jane, 35-year-old female, lives in Boston, etc.).
Based on these requirements, we propose UXAgent, a system
that can generate LLM Agents as usability testing participants at
scale and run simulated interactions with a given web environment
to collect simulated user behavioral data. The UX researcher can
define a demographic distribution and use the Persona Generator
to generate thousands of personas for the LLM Agents, and then
use the Universal Browser Connector module to interact with webpages via Chrome, which generates large-scale user behavior traces.
The Universal Browser Connector module allows LLM Agents to
seamlessly parse and interpret web pages while automatically executing actions on the webpage without the need for manually
predefined action spaces. The system produces video recordings, as
well as features a chat interface to allow the UX researchers to view
the LLM Agents’ interactions with the webpage and conduct qualitative interviews in natural language conversation , empowering
the UX researcher to collect qualitative data. Our position is that:
LLM Agents are not to replace human participants, rather
to be more responsible to the human participants — LLM
Agents can work together with UX researchers (human-AI
collaboration [36]) in a simulated pilot session to provide the
desired early and immediate feedback for UX researchers to
further iterate the design of the human-subject study before
conducting it.
To evaluate our system, we further conducted a user study with 5
UX researchers and asked them to examine the UXAgent-generated
data (video recording, action trace, memory log, and the final outcome) of how 60 LLM Agents interact with a shopping website. The
user study results suggested that our UX researcher participants
felt that the generated human behavior data are “not like real humans” because they are “very detailed” and “real human [users]
won’t think like that”, but they still find the data generated from
our system “very helpful”, which can indeed help them iterate their
experiment design. We conclude our paper with discussions of how
LLM Agents may alter the future of UX research.

UXAgent: An LLM-Agent-Based Usability Testing Framework for Web Design

2 Related Work
2.1 Challenges in Usability Testing
Usability testing is a core component of UX research, used to evaluate how easily users can interact with a product to achieve their
goals [1, 2, 17, 31]. It involves observing real users as they navigate
through tasks and providing valuable feedback on design effectiveness [1]. This method helps refine products by identifying usability
issues, measuring user satisfaction, and improving overall user experience. The key benefits of usability testing include validating
design choices, avoiding internal biases, and ensuring the product
meets user expectations.
However, UX researchers conducting usability testing on web
designs have been facing multiple challenges in the experiment
design stage and the participant recruitment stage [9, 12, 15, 22]. To
mitigate these challenges, researchers have begun to explore using
agents to simulate usability testing [27]. Prior works in agent-based
tools mainly focused on pre-defined environments, like GUI [7] and
games [8, 32]. Nevertheless, the potential for employing agents in
web design usability testing remains underexplored, largely due to
the constraints of traditional web automation technologies.

2.2

LLM Agent and LLM Web Agent

In the field of HCI, recent studies have demonstrated that LLMs
have the capability to simulate human-like behaviors, making research on personalized agent behavior feasible. Unlike task-oriented
agents, which are typically focused on completing specific tasks,
these human agents or role-play agents [4] are designed with diverse personas that reflect not only their roles and expertise but
also their preferences and habits. For example, Park et al. [23] developed a simulated town with 25 LLM Agents, each with a unique
persona, and exhibited believable human behaviors through their
interactions. LLM Agents are also used to study users’ privacy concerns [3, 40]. For example, Chen et al. [3] introduced a privacy
sandbox where users can modify an agent’s persona, allowing it
to generate search histories and profiles based on personal traits.
Taeb et al. [34] proposed AXNav that leverages LLM to convert
manual accessibility test instructions to replayable and navigatable
videos. These innovations guide our work, as we aim to simulate
user behavior in web environments by incorporating diverse agent
personas for usability testing.
LLM Agents in web environments (LLM Web Agents) like WebGPT [21] and LASER [20] have also demonstrated that LLM Agents
can perform more complex tasks within web environments, such as
searching, browsing and shopping [39]. With these advancements,
LLM Web Agents present a promising solution for simulating human subjects in usability testing while interacting with web environments. To this end, we propose UXAgent, an LLM-Agent-based
system for automating usability testing in web environments.

3

UXAgent: LLM-Agent-Based System for
Usability Testing

We propose UXAgent, a system that can generate LLM Agents as
usability testing participants at scale and run simulated interactions
with a given web environment to collect simulated user behavioral

CHI EA ’25, April 26-May 1, 2025, Yokohama, Japan

data. The architecture of the UXAgent system is depicted in Figure 1. The system comprises several key components: The Persona
Generator Module generates a diverse set of large-scale personas,
which are provided as input to the LLM Agent. The LLM Agent
interacts with a Chrome browser through the Universal Browser
Connector Module. This module parses the raw HTML extracted
from Chrome and simplifies it for the agent. The agent outputs
actions, such as click on search_button, which the Universal
Browser Connector translates into raw actions like clicking on a
specific coordinate. HTML, agents’ actions and memories traces,
are collected for further analysis. The Chat Interface, which can
be loaded with an agent’s memory trace, is used to provide more
qualitative feedback on the web design.

3.1

Persona Generator Module Design

To support large-scale simulation of diverse user backgrounds, our
system enables the generation of diverse agent personas. The user
can specify a distribution of agent demographics and an example
persona; the persona generator module will automatically generate
the desired number of personas with random demographic information matching the specified distribution. To ensure diversity in
generated personas, each time we prompt the LLM to generate
personas, a randomly selected persona is used as an example. A
hand-crafted persona is used as the initial seed. The prompt used
in our system is detailed in Section B.1.

3.2

LLM Agent Designed for Web Environment
Interactions

We designed the LLM Agent that features a Memory Stream and
a two-loop structure, inspired by Kahneman [13]. The Fast Loop
enables real-time interaction with the web environment, while
the Slow Loop facilitates in-depth reasoning. Each loop contains
modules, which take inputs such as the agent persona, memories
retrieved from the memory stream and observations of the environment and produce outputs such as memories and actions. Figure 6
illustrates the agent’s structure.
The Fast Loop is a fast and responsive loop in which the agent
quickly operates the web environment without much in-depth
thinking and has a relatively low latency between actions. It consists
of the following modules: 1) Perception Module: The agent makes
an observation of the web environment and produces a stream of
observation memories in natural language. 2) Planning Module:
The agent plans the next step based on the current state of the
web environment and the recent memories. 3) Action Module: The
agent takes the action on the web environment based on the plan.
The Slow Loop of our agent is designed to provide high-level
insights and strategic guidance to the Fast Loop, ensuring that the
agent remains aligned with its intent and persona. It consists of the
following modules: 1) Wonder Module: The agent generates random
thoughts based on the current situation, mimicking a human’s
“mind drifting” phenomenon. 2) Reflect Module: The agent reflects
on recent memories and generates high-level insights and reasoning
that will be used to guide their future actions.
The Memory Stream is used to store and retrieve the agent’s
memories, including its observations, actions, reflections, and thoughts.
Each memory piece consists of a sentence or paragraph in natural

CHI EA ’25, April 26-May 1, 2025, Yokohama, Japan

language combined with a timestamp. The Memory Stream also
serves as a bridge between the Fast and Slow loops. Following prior
work [23], we design our memory retrieval module to focus on
importance, relevance, and recency. Each memory is scored based
on these factors, with weights tailored to prioritize recency in the
Fast Loop for quick responses and relevance in the Slow Loop for
deeper reasoning, aligning with human cognitive patterns.

3.3

Universal Browser Connector Module

To seek the balance between the complexity of the observation
space and the flexibility of the action space, to allow our LLM
Agent to operate web browsers automatically, we implemented a
Universal Browser Connector that uses manually crafted policies to parse the raw HTML to a simplified version of HTML
as the model’s observation space and use auto-generated action space that can be easily generalized to different websites.
The simplified HTML is a tree structure that contains the visible
information of the web page, such as the title, the product list, the
product detail, and the shopping cart, while trimming all unnecessary information, such as the CSS and JavaScript code. Action space
is a set of task-agnostic actions generated by the parser that the
agent can take, such as “click”, “type” and “back”, that can be easily
generalized to different websites. The agent can take actions in the
action space to interact with the web environment and observe the
web environment by receiving the simplified HTML structure. The
definition of the action space, observation space, and the HTML
parser can be found in appendix A.

3.4

Chat Interface

After the simulation session, the simulated action traces and memory traces will be loaded into the Chat Interface, allowing the UX
researcher to interview the agent and collect qualitative feedback.
Users can first select a persona from the persona selection page
and the memory of the persona will be loaded to the chat interface.
Then, in the chat page shown in Figure 2b, the user can talk and
interview the agent to collect qualitative feedback. We also allow
uploading images during the chat, allowing the user to get feedback
on a new feature prototype, even before it is implemented.

3.5

Simulation Environment and Task for LLM
Agents

To validate the effectiveness of UXAgent, we deployed the LLM
Agents on two online shopping platforms: WebArena [41] and
Google Flights3 . WebArena is a publicly available open-source online shopping environment and is used as the target experiment.
We chose WebArena as our experiment platform because it works
similarly to Amazon.com and is widely used by various research
projects [33, 38]. Google Flights, a commercial platform for flight
booking, is also used to demonstrate the adaptability of our system
from the online shopping use case to the travel booking use case.
As shopping task represents a common, highly personal activity
that humans engage in daily and allows the agent to exhibit diverse
behaviors, we selected the shopping task (“buy a jacket”) as the
agents’ initial intent in our study. From the initial intent, our system
3 https://www.google.com/travel/flights

Lu et al.

is able to generate simulation results, including the agents’ memory
and action traces, video recording, and final outcome (such as item
purchased or session quit).
In our study, we used the Persona Generator Module to generate
60 agent personas, following a uniform distribution across different
gender groups (male, female, and non-binary) and across different
income groups ($0-$30k, $30k-$58k, $58k-$94k, $94k-$153k, and
$153k-). We then ran one simulation session with each of these
60 agent personas using UXAgent on WebArena. The simulation
results revealed different purchase behaviors across income groups,
with the average purchased amount increasing with income: $28.41
for the $0-$30k group, $15.99 for $30k-$58k, $54.85 for $58k-$94k,
$41.03 for $94k-$153k, and $75.34 for $153k+. We provided the
simulation result for the UX researcher participants to analyze as if
they were running these user study sessions.

4 User Study
4.1 Participant Recruitment and Participant
Task
We recruited five UX researchers as participants, each with selfreported UX experience ranging from 1 to 6 years (M = 3, SD = 1.87).
Most participants rated themselves as “very familiar” with usability
analysis on a 5-point scale (M = 4.2, SD = 0.83). All participants
have prior experience using Large Language Models (e.g., ChatGPT,
Claude). The study was conducted remotely, with participants using
their computers to access the LLM Agent and communicating with
the moderator via Zoom.
Before the study, the moderator used UXAgent to generate various personas and asked each agent to finish a simulation session
of usability testing on the shopping task. The moderator then randomly sampled 60 simulation sessions from the 1,000 simulations.
Examples of the generated data are shown in appendix C.
In our study, participants are instructed to first finish a pre-study
survey and then receive a brief introduction to the study tasks.
In the 40-minute study, participants were tasked with conducting
a user study to measure customer shopping behavior on a website. Specifically, they were required to analyze simulation data
generated by UXAgent, with the goal of improving the design
of the user study. Participants were instructed to freely navigate
through various types of data while thinking aloud. Participants are
then invited to interact with a chatbot, pre-loaded with a simulated
participant’s memory, to “interview” the simulated participant. Participants were provided with three different types of data generated
by UXAgent, including 1) agent’s action trace, 2) memory trace,
and 3) final outcome. Any questions regarding the tasks or the data
from the participants were addressed before proceeding.
After completing the data analysis, participants filled out a Likert scale survey to assess the system’s efficiency, trustworthiness,
satisfaction, and helpfulness, following methodologies from prior
work on LLM-generated data [14]. Participants were also asked to
answer “For each type of data generated, is it helpful for designing
your study?” We then conducted a semi-structured post-study interview, asking participants to share their perceptions of the different
data types and how the simulated results could provide insights
on the design of future user studies. We also gathered suggestions
for system improvements. A screenshot of our user study can be

UXAgent: An LLM-Agent-Based Usability Testing Framework for Web Design

CHI EA ’25, April 26-May 1, 2025, Yokohama, Japan

(a) A participant in our user study is watching a video recording replaying an LLM Agent’s onling shoping action trace.

(b) Chat UI. The UX researcher can select a LLM Agent to
ask why it had certain behaviors.

Figure 2: User study session and an interactive chat interface with LLM Agent

found in Figure 2a. Each session lasted approximately 40 minutes,
was video-recorded, and the transcriptions were analyzed using an
inductive process [35].

4.2

Study Findings

4.2.1 How Did UX Researchers Use Our UXAgent System? Participants followed four categories of analysis paradigm when analyzing
data generated by UXAgent: 1) gaining trust in the data, 2) making
sense of the data, 3) proposing hypotheses and detailed observations, and 4) drawing conclusions.
Gaining trust of data. When participants had access to all
types of data generated by UXAgent, their predominant response
was to examine each data type to ensure its trustworthiness. Most
participants only proceeded with deeper analysis after confirming
the data’s trustworthiness. However, some participants began to analyze the data early on without fully verifying their trustworthiness
and encountered challenges at later stages.
Making sense of data. Once trust was established, they moved
on to the sense-making phase, where they tried to interpret the data
and understand the relationships between different variables. For
example, participants calculated the average price and number of
actions among different groups in a google sheet. P4 was misled by
the persona names presented to them and was trying to analyze the
different shopping behaviors of LLM Agents with different names
that are randomly generated: “Most of the Jakes? There’s only one
Jake here that didn’t buy it, but most Jakes here bought it.” This
suggests a better understanding of how the data is generated is
necessary for future adoption of such data.
Proposing hypotheses and detailed observations. Participants
then made hypotheses on the experiment result and made detailed
observations to verify their hypothesis. Most participants noticed

agents of non-binary genders have a lower purchase rate than
male and female agents. P4 hypothesized that maybe this is due to
product availability, as there are not many unisex products. They
then checked the raw action log and noticed that a non-binary user
searched for a ‘unisex jacket,’ clicked into a ‘women’s jacket,’ and
ended up purchasing nothing, which proved their hypothesis.
Drawing Conclusions. Participants then discussed what they
found during the analysis of the simulated result. They organized
the findings in a document and discussed how they were going
to revise and iterate their study design after the simulation. P4
suggested that they will move quickly, iterate the study design, and
re-run the simulation study to test the new design: “Since it’s really
quick and easy, I think it could encourage people to do a lot more
iterative design.”
4.2.2

Participants’ Perceptions and Concerns of UXAgent.

Participant have mixed feelings of simulated data from
UXAgent. Figure 3 shows participants’ perceived usage of LLM
Agents generated human behavior data. Notably, although the generated data may not seem very realistic (M=3, SD=0.7), participants still found the data presented by UXAgent to be very helpful
(M=3.4, SD=0.89). This perceived helpfulness was also seen as an
expansion of the pilot user study design, with P1 mentioning:
“ It’s very hard to find pilot study of 60 participants or
even just five or ten. So I think in this way I can conduct
my pilot study with the large language model agent. ”
(P1)
Participants believed that the simulation results were insightful (M=3.6, SD=0.89) and trustworthy (M=3.6, SD=1.51), sparking
an interest in further investigation—an uncommon occurrence in
smaller-scale pilot studies. Furthermore, the large-scale data allows
them to see things from others’ perspectives. Participants especially

CHI EA ’25, April 26-May 1, 2025, Yokohama, Japan

Lu et al.

Strongly 5
Agree

Strongly 5
Agree

4

4

3

3

2

2

Strongly 1
Disagree

Trust Accurate Helpful Insightful Clear Easy to
Worthy
Comprehend

(a) Participant’s Perception towards the Usage of UXAgent in User
Study

Strongly 1
Disagree

Action
Trace

Recording Memory

Statistics

Chat

(b) Participant’s Perceived Helpfulness Towards the Different Data
Modality Generated by UXAgent

Figure 3: Participant’s perception towards using UXAgent in User Study

liked the ability to talk with the agent (M=4.8, SD=0.44) and collect
information that you may never be able to get from real human
participants, as P4 mentioned: “I think it could help me to kind of
brainstorm.” The final outcome and statistics (M=4.6, SD=0.54) and
the agents’ action trace (M=4.2, SD=0.84) were also rated as helpful
by the participants.
Participants mentioned that the raw memory traces are hard to
read and analyze. P2 mentioned that “If you can present the thoughts
in a better way, like not just right now for each agent, probably like a
highlight or summary.” We believe this is due to the noisy nature of
all unprocessed raw data, and we further discuss the possible use of
this data in Section 5.1. Participants gained trust in the generated
data from watching the generated video recording of the browser
operated by the LLM Agent, but they found analyzing it hard and
time-consuming.
Concerns about model bias and data bias. Participants are
concerned about the potential biases introduced by the data generated by LLM Agents. In our study, we identified two types of bias
that are key concerns for participants when it comes to LLMs. 1)
Data Representation Bias is where the decisions made by the
agents may be influenced by biases present in the real-world data
they were trained on, as stated by P2: “because we do feel like the
LLM has sort of stereotyping that. My feeling female will buy more
male will buy less things” . 2) Algorithmic Decision Bias, which
is introduced in the pre-training and fine-tuning stage of the LLM
could distract the study design, as P1 commented, “it could be bias
or it could disturb my study design”(P1) .
Perceived unrealistic human behavior. Participants have varied opinions about whether certain types of the LLM’s simulated
data are realistic. Human users usually quickly skim and disregard unimportant webpage elements like ads or irrelevant results.
Our agent mirrors this behavior by assigning varying “importance”
scores to each memory in its memory stream. However, as the
importance score is not shown to our participants, participants
reported that the memory stream is “of too much detail” and “not
realistic”. Despite the fact that the presented memory stream may

not be a full mimic of real human behavior, participants still showed
their love in having these data, as these are still something they
cannot collect from experiments with real human participants and
can provide additional insights.

5 Discussion
5.1 Design Considerations for LLM Agent
Systems in User Study
The shift towards using LLM to assist UX research has demonstrated immense potential. Our work UXAgent demonstrated that
LLM Agents can support user studies with faster design iterations
through user behavior simulation, reducing costs and improving
the quality of study design [6]. Our participants suggested that
the future systems should automatically generate high-level
insight summaries as the generated LLM Agents’ raw memory
is hard to analyze. Thus, future systems should explore how to automatically utilize the current data to generate high-level insights
and summaries for users.

5.2

Resolving Risk and Privacy Conerns

While LLM-assisted UX study systems offer substantial benefits
for user studies, they also introduce significant risks and concerns,
particularly around privacy and ethical use [19, 30]. A notable
concern about sensitive data might arise in applying LLM Agents
in user studies in fields such as healthcare [25]. Our participants
viewed data from LLM Agents as supplementary rather than definitive, which is consistent with prior findings that LLMs cannot
fully replace human subjects in psychological experiments [5]. This
preference reflects their ability to detect biases, limiting acceptance
of LLMs as accurate representations of outcomes [29].
Another critical issue is the risk of researchers misusing AIgenerated data [25]. Some may be tempted to use this simulated
data as a substitute for actual human participant data, potentially
bypassing real user studies altogether. This could lead to flawed
conclusions, as the AI-generated data, while useful for simulations,
cannot fully replicate the complexity of real human behavior. We

UXAgent: An LLM-Agent-Based Usability Testing Framework for Web Design

believe that addressing these risks requires a clear understanding of
the limitations of LLM-generated data and establishing rigorous ethical guidelines and robust privacy safeguards to ensure responsible
and effective integration of LLM in UX research.

5.3

Limitations and Future Works

There are several limitations in our work. First, the limited number
of participants in our heuristic evaluation may not fully capture the
diversity of user experiences or the generalizability of the findings.
A larger scale of rigorous user testing in the future will help us
further explore the effectiveness of UXAgent. Also, our current
work focuses only on the qualitative analysis of the participants’
perspectives toward LLM Agent simulation, but not on quantitative evaluations of the LLM Agents’ versus real humans’ shopping
behaviors. It is crucial to conduct a systematic analysis comparing
LLM-generated simulations with real human participants in order
to further understand how UX researchers could benefit from using
such agents. Furthermore, our current system and agent design
only process semantic or textual information (i.e. HTML) available
on the webpage, while visual elements such as images and visual
layout information are excluded during parsing. Incorporating Multimodal LLMs (MLLMs) to interpret and utilize both textual and
visual information could enable the system to better understand
page context, enhancing its adaptability in real-world scenarios
where visual cues and layout are also critical for effective user
interaction modeling.
Our current results confirm the effectiveness of UXAgent in
web-related user research, as well as the potential of LLMs in simulating user behavior to assist rapid iteration of user research. In
the future, this work could be expanded to encompass a broader
range of user research contexts beyond web applications. This
might include adaptation to UI/UX design in desktop, mobile, or
mixed-reality environments, where LLM Agents could simulate
user interactions in complex, multi-modal interfaces. Also, we only
tested giving the agents an explicit intention of “buy a jacket”. Experimenting with other intents, such as window shopping, can also
help understand the ability and limits of LLM Agent. Additionally,
the action space of the agent is currently limited to basic actions
such as “click” and “type”. Supporting other types of actions, such
as “read”, “scroll” and “mouse hover” can allow the experimenter
to collect more information useful to their study.

6

Conclusion

In this work, we designed UXAgent, a system enabling researchers
to conduct simulated user studies, thereby facilitating iterative
refinement of their UX study designs. The results of our evaluation
study suggest UXAgent can support UX researchers in designing
and refining their user studies to improve UX study quality and
reduce risk for real human subjects. Our study is the first step
towards a promising future of designing LLM agents to collaborate
with UX researchers to achieve “human-AI collaboration” in the
field of UX research.

References
[1] Carol M Barnum. 2020. Usability Testing Essentials: Ready, Set... Test!
Morgan Kaufmann.

CHI EA ’25, April 26-May 1, 2025, Yokohama, Japan

[2] J.M. Christian Bastien. 2010. Usability Testing: A Review of Some Methodological
and Technical Aspects of the Method. International Journal of Medical
Informatics 79, 4 (April 2010), e18–e23. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijmedinf.2008.
12.004
[3] Chaoran Chen, Weijun Li, Wenxin Song, Yanfang Ye, Yaxing Yao, and Toby
Jia-Jun Li. 2024. An Empathy-Based Sandbox Approach to Bridge the Privacy
Gap among Attitudes, Goals, Knowledge, and Behaviors. In Proceedings of
the CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI
’24). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1–28. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3613904.3642363
[4] Chaoran Chen, Bingsheng Yao, Ruishi Zou, Wenyue Hua, Weimin Lyu, Toby JiaJun Li, and Dakuo Wang. 2025. Towards a Design Guideline for RPA Evaluation:
A Survey of Large Language Model-Based Role-Playing Agents. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2502.13012 (2025).
[5] Ziyan Cui, Ning Li, and Huaikang Zhou. 2024. Can AI Replace Human Subjects?
A Large-Scale Replication of Psychological Experiments with LLMs. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2409.00128 (2024).
[6] Heidi Decker-Maurer. 2012. Method Madness: A Usability Testing Pilot Research
Case Study. Commun. Des. Q. Rev 13, 1 (March 2012), 14–18. https://doi.org/
10.1145/2424837.2424839
[7] Juha Eskonen, Julen Kahles, and Joel Reijonen. 2020. Automating GUI Testing
with Image-Based Deep Reinforcement Learning. In 2020 IEEE International
Conference on Autonomic Computing and Self-Organizing Systems (ACSOS). 160–167. https://doi.org/10.1109/ACSOS49614.2020.00038
[8] Pedro M. Fernandes, Manuel Lopes, and Rui Prada. 2021. Agents for Automated
User Experience Testing. In 2021 IEEE International Conference on Software
Testing, Verification and Validation Workshops (ICSTW). 247–253. https:
//doi.org/10.1109/ICSTW52544.2021.00049
[9] Asbjørn Følstad, Effie Law, and Kasper Hornbæk. 2012. Analysis in Practical Usability Evaluation: A Survey Study. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI
Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI ’12). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 2127–2136. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/2207676.2208365
[10] Izzeddin Gur, Hiroki Furuta, Austin V. Huang, Mustafa Safdari, Yutaka Matsuo,
Douglas Eck, and Aleksandra Faust. 2023. A Real-World WebAgent with Planning,
Long Context Understanding, and Program Synthesis. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations. https://openreview.net/
forum?id=9JQtrumvg8
[11] Onder Gurcan. 2024. LLM-Augmented Agent-Based Modelling for Social Simulations: Challenges and Opportunities. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2405.06700
arXiv:2405.06700 [physics]
[12] Morten Hertzum and Niels Ebbe Jacobsen. 2003. The Evaluator Effect: A Chilling
Fact About Usability Evaluation Methods. International Journal of HumanComputer Interaction (Feb. 2003). https://doi.org/10.1207/S15327590IJHC1501_
14
[13] Daniel Kahneman. 2011. Thinking, fast and slow. Farrar, Straus and Giroux
(2011).
[14] Emily Kuang, Ehsan Jahangirzadeh Soure, Mingming Fan, Jian Zhao, and Kristen Shinohara. 2023. Collaboration with Conversational AI Assistants for UX
Evaluation: Questions and How to Ask Them (Voice vs. Text). In Proceedings
of the 2023 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems
(CHI ’23). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1–15.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3544548.3581247
[15] Emily Kuang, Xiaofu Jin, and Mingming Fan. 2022. “Merging Results Is No Easy
Task”: An International Survey Study of Collaborative Data Analysis Practices
Among UX Practitioners. In Proceedings of the 2022 CHI Conference on
Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI ’22). Association for Computing
Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1–16. https://doi.org/10.1145/3491102.3517647
[16] Kyuwon Lee, Simone Paci, Jeongmin Park, Hye Young You, and Sylvan Zheng.
[n. d.]. Applications of GPT in Political Science Research. ([n. d.]).
[17] James R Lewis. 2012. Usability Testing. Handbook of human factors and
ergonomics (2012), 1267–1312. https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118131350.ch46
[18] Junkai Li, Siyu Wang, Meng Zhang, Weitao Li, Yunghwei Lai, Xinhui Kang, Weizhi
Ma, and Yang Liu. 2024. Agent Hospital: A Simulacrum of Hospital with Evolvable
Medical Agents. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2405.02957 arXiv:2405.02957 [cs]
[19] Tianshi Li, Sauvik Das, Hao-Ping Lee, Dakuo Wang, Bingsheng Yao, and Zhiping
Zhang. 2024. Human-Centered Privacy Research in the Age of Large Language
Models. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2402.01994 arXiv:2402.01994 [cs]
[20] Kaixin Ma, Hongming Zhang, Hongwei Wang, Xiaoman Pan, Wenhao Yu, and
Dong Yu. 2024. LASER: LLM Agent with State-Space Exploration for Web Navigation. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2309.08172 arXiv:2309.08172 [cs]
[21] Reiichiro Nakano, Jacob Hilton, Suchir Balaji, Jeff Wu, Long Ouyang, Christina
Kim, Christopher Hesse, Shantanu Jain, Vineet Kosaraju, William Saunders, Xu
Jiang, Karl Cobbe, Tyna Eloundou, Gretchen Krueger, Kevin Button, Matthew
Knight, Benjamin Chess, and John Schulman. 2022. WebGPT: Browser-assisted
Question-Answering with Human Feedback. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.
2112.09332 arXiv:2112.09332 [cs]

CHI EA ’25, April 26-May 1, 2025, Yokohama, Japan

[22] Mie Nørgaard and Kasper Hornbæk. 2006. What Do Usability Evaluators Do in
Practice? An Explorative Study of Think-Aloud Testing. In Proceedings of the
6th Conference on Designing Interactive Systems (DIS ’06). Association for
Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 209–218. https://doi.org/10.1145/
1142405.1142439
[23] Joon Sung Park, Joseph O’Brien, Carrie Jun Cai, Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy
Liang, and Michael S. Bernstein. 2023. Generative Agents: Interactive Simulacra
of Human Behavior. In Proceedings of the 36th Annual ACM Symposium
on User Interface Software and Technology (UIST ’23). Association for
Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1–22. https://doi.org/10.1145/
3586183.3606763
[24] Joon Sung Park, Carolyn Q. Zou, Aaron Shaw, Benjamin Mako Hill, Carrie Cai,
Meredith Ringel Morris, Robb Willer, Percy Liang, and Michael S. Bernstein.
2024. Generative Agent Simulations of 1,000 People. arXiv:2411.10109 http:
//arxiv.org/abs/2411.10109
[25] Charith Peris, Christophe Dupuy, Jimit Majmudar, Rahil Parikh, Sami Smaili,
Richard Zemel, and Rahul Gupta. 2023. Privacy in the Time of Language Models.
In Proceedings of the Sixteenth ACM International Conference on Web
Search and Data Mining (WSDM ’23). Association for Computing Machinery,
New York, NY, USA, 1291–1292. https://doi.org/10.1145/3539597.3575792
[26] Chen Qian, Wei Liu, Hongzhang Liu, Nuo Chen, Yufan Dang, Jiahao Li, Cheng
Yang, Weize Chen, Yusheng Su, Xin Cong, Juyuan Xu, Dahai Li, Zhiyuan Liu, and
Maosong Sun. 2024. ChatDev: Communicative Agents for Software Development.
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2307.07924 arXiv:2307.07924 [cs]
[27] Yuqing Ren and Robert E Kraut. 2014. Agent based modeling to inform the design
of multiuser systems. In Ways of Knowing in HCI. Springer, 395–419.
[28] Samuel Schmidgall, Rojin Ziaei, Carl Harris, Eduardo Reis, Jeffrey Jopling, and
Michael Moor. 2024. AgentClinic: A Multimodal Agent Benchmark to Evaluate
AI in Simulated Clinical Environments. arXiv:2405.07960 [cs] http://arxiv.org/
abs/2405.07960
[29] Albrecht Schmidt, Passant Elagroudy, Fiona Draxler, Frauke Kreuter, and Robin
Welsch. 2024. Simulating the Human in HCD with ChatGPT: Redesigning
Interaction Design with AI. interactions 31, 1 (Jan. 2024), 24–31. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3637436
[30] Yijia Shao, Tianshi Li, Weiyan Shi, Yanchen Liu, and Diyi Yang. 2024. PrivacyLens:
Evaluating Privacy Norm Awareness of Language Models in Action. https:
//doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2409.00138 arXiv:2409.00138 [cs]
[31] Debora Shaw. 1996. Handbook of Usability Testing: How to Plan, Design, and
Conduct Effective Tests. Journal of the American Society for Information Science 47, 3 (March 1996), 258–259. https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)10974571(199603)47:3{$<$}258::AID-ASI18{$>$}3.0.CO;2-#
[32] Samantha . Stahlke, Atiya Nova, and Pejman Mirza-Babaei. 2019. Artificial Playfulness: A Tool for Automated Agent-Based Playtesting. In Extended Abstracts
of the 2019 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems
(CHI EA ’19). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1–6.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3290607.3313039
[33] Hongjin Su, Ruoxi Sun, Jinsung Yoon, Pengcheng Yin, Tao Yu, and Sercan O. Arik.
2024. Learn-by-Interact: A Data-Centric Framework For Self-Adaptive Agents
in Realistic Environments. In The Thirteenth International Conference on
Learning Representations. https://openreview.net/forum?id=3UKOzGWCVY
[34] Maryam Taeb, Amanda Swearngin, Eldon Schoop, Ruijia Cheng, Yue Jiang, and
Jeffrey Nichols. 2024. AXNav: Replaying Accessibility Tests from Natural Language. In Proceedings of the 2024 CHI Conference on Human Factors in
Computing Systems (CHI ’24). Association for Computing Machinery, New
York, NY, USA, 1–16. https://doi.org/10.1145/3613904.3642777
[35] David R. Thomas. 2006.
A General Inductive Approach for Analyzing Qualitative Evaluation Data.
American Journal of Evaluation 27, 2 (2006), 237–246.
https://doi.org/10.1177/1098214005283748
arXiv:https://doi.org/10.1177/1098214005283748
[36] Dakuo Wang, Justin D. Weisz, Michael Muller, Parikshit Ram, Werner Geyer,
Casey Dugan, Yla Tausczik, Horst Samulowitz, and Alexander Gray. 2019. HumanAI Collaboration in Data Science: Exploring Data Scientists’ Perceptions of Automated AI. Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction 3,
CSCW (Nov. 2019), 1–24. https://doi.org/10.1145/3359313 arXiv:1909.02309 [cs]
[37] Lei Wang, Chen Ma, Xueyang Feng, Zeyu Zhang, Hao Yang, Jingsen Zhang,
Zhiyuan Chen, Jiakai Tang, Xu Chen, Yankai Lin, Wayne Xin Zhao, Zhewei Wei,
and Ji-Rong Wen. 2024. A Survey on Large Language Model Based Autonomous
Agents. Frontiers of Computer Science 18, 6 (Dec. 2024), 186345. https:
//doi.org/10.1007/s11704-024-40231-1 arXiv:2308.11432 [cs]
[38] Ke Yang, Yao Liu, Sapana Chaudhary, Rasool Fakoor, Pratik Chaudhari, George
Karypis, and Huzefa Rangwala. 2024. AgentOccam: A Simple Yet Strong Baseline for LLM-Based Web Agents. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2410.13825
arXiv:2410.13825 [cs]
[39] Shunyu Yao, Howard Chen, John Yang, and Karthik R. Narasimhan. 2022.
WebShop: Towards Scalable Real-World Web Interaction with Grounded Language Agents. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems.
https://openreview.net/forum?id=R9KnuFlvnU

Lu et al.

[40] Zhiping Zhang, Bingcan Guo, and Tianshi Li. 2025. Privacy Leakage Overshadowed by Views of AI: A Study on Human Oversight of Privacy in Language
Model Agent. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2411.01344 arXiv:2411.01344 [cs]
[41] Shuyan Zhou, Frank F. Xu, Hao Zhu, Xuhui Zhou, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar,
Xianyi Cheng, Tianyue Ou, Yonatan Bisk, Daniel Fried, Uri Alon, and Graham
Neubig. 2024. WebArena: A Realistic Web Environment for Building Autonomous
Agents. arXiv:2307.13854 [cs] http://arxiv.org/abs/2307.13854

UXAgent: An LLM-Agent-Based Usability Testing Framework for Web Design

A

Browser Environment

Observation Space. The observation space in the Universal Browser
Connector is represented with a JSON object that contains:
• url: The URL of the current webpage
• page: The simplified HTML of the current webpage
• clickables: A list of clickable elements on the webpage,
such as buttons and links
• inputs: A list of input elements on the webpage, such as
text fields and dropdowns
• error_message: An error message if an error occurs, for
example, if the agent clicked on a button that does not exist
To remove redundant information, we only keep the visible information of each HTML tag, such as the text content, the attributes,
and child elements. An example simplified HTML is shown in Figure 4. The parser takes the raw HTML and a recipe and parses the
HTML based on the recipe. The recipe specifies how to parse the
HTML, such as which tags to keep and how to extract the text content and attributes of each tag. If the recipe has any child elements,
the parser will recursively parse the child elements with the child
recipe.
Handling of Text Text of an HTML element is extracted if the
recipe specifies a add_text field. The three possible parse methods of text are default, text_selector and text_js. default
extracts all of the text content of the tag. text_selector extracts
the text content of a child element based on a CSS selector. text_js
serves like a fallback method, where the recipe species a JavaScript
function that returns the text content. In this way, for most cases
the recipe can be easily created by selecting the text element. In
rare cases, for example, the text of a radio button should be the text
of a sibling label tag, the flexibility of the text_js method allows
the parser to handle these cases.
Sometimes, the visual information and the textual information of
an element differ, especially in cases where the HTML’s accessibility features are not well-implemented. For example, on the product
detail page, the review score information is often shown as stars.
While an alternative text like “4.2 out of 5 stars” exists, there is sometimes no clue that the scores here is the product review. We allow
the recipe to specify a text_format, for example, “Rating: {}” in
this case, to supply the necessary context. With text_format like
this, the abovementioned product review score will be parsed as
“Rating: 4.2 out of 5 stars”, allowing easier understanding by the
LLM Agent.
Handling of Tag Name and Attributes Attributes of HTML
elements include 1) the visual information of the element, such as
style and class; 2) the semantic information of the element, such as
role, href, and src; 3) the information of the element’s state, such
as checked and selected. The tag name of an HTML element also
sometimes conveys semantic information, such as a tag is used for
hyperlink, and img tag is used for the image.
In our case, as most visual information is not needed, we remove all visual information attributes from the HTML and keep
the semantic information and the state information. For tag name,
the default behavior is to keep the tag name as is, and the recipe
can supply a tag_name field to override the tag name, for example,
replace div with button for better readability and accessibility.

CHI EA ’25, April 26-May 1, 2025, Yokohama, Japan

Specifically, the class attribute mostly conveys visual information such as color and alignment. However, they sometimes also
convey the semantic information, such as product-item-details.
Thus, the recipe can supply a keep_attr option to keep the attributes of the tag. To further enhance flexibility, the recipe can
supply a override_attr option to keep the attributes of the tag
based on a JavaScript function. This way, the parser can handle a
wide range of scenarios, from simple attribute extraction to more
complex cases where attributes need to be dynamically determined.
The JavaScript state of the HTML element, for example, the
selected attribute and the value of an input box, is invisible in
the HTML, yet important for the agent to know. Thus, for select
and input elements, we extract their JavaScript state, and add it
to the corresponding attribute simplified HTML, for example, a
selected attribute is added to the select element, and a value
attribute is added to the input element.
Handling of Child Elements
To develop complex animation to indicate states like hover and
focus, UI designers use many nested elements and CSS classes. For
example, a button is often implemented using the button or div
tag, but to support styles like shadow and animations, web designer
often use multiple nested div element inside the button. While
these redundant tags are necessary for better styling, they do not
contribute to the semantic information to the button and may affect
the agent’s understanding.
To simplify the HTML, we “flatten” it by removing redundant
levels of elements. For instance, in the HTML shown in Figure 5a, a
nested “Child-wrapper” is used. If the recipe specifies a children
field, the parser will select the deep child element (“Child” in this
case) and remove the intermediate “Child-wrapper”.
If the recipe does not specify a children field, all child elements
are removed from the HTML. Additionally, as discussed in Section
A, if the recipe specifies an add_text field, the text from the deep
child elements is extracted and added to the corresponding parent
tag, which is shown in Figure 7. This process reduces the number
of tags in the HTML, making it more readable.
In this way, the HTML presented to the LLM Agent is simplified and more readable, while still preserving the same semantic
information of the HTML.
Action Space. The action space of the web browser includes the
following actions:
• click: perform a mouse click on the target element
• type: type the text into the input box
• type_and_submit: type the text into the input box and submit the form, just like hittingEnter key after typing the text
• clear: clear the text in the input box
• back: go back to the previous page
• terminate: terminate the current session, denoting user
closes the browser
For all interactive elements, a name attribute is appended to the
HTML tag to assist the agent in identifying the target element.
The name attribute is constructed by traversing the parent tree. For
instance, if a button is named add_to_cart in the recipe, and it
is a child of a div named product, the complete name of the resulting HTML element will be product.add_to_cart. Specifically,
in our testing online shopping scenario, all the forms only have

CHI EA ’25, April 26-May 1, 2025, Yokohama, Japan

Lu et al.

<div name="search_results.1966_ford_f_100_clear_body_slash_slash_4x4"
class="search-result">
<a name="search_results.1966_ford_f_100_clear_body_slash_slash_4x4.view_product"
class="product-name">
1966 Ford F-100 Clear Body: Slash, Slash 4x4
</a>
<div class="product-review">
<span class="product-rating">4.3 out of 5 stars</span>
<span class="product-rating-count">103 reviews</span>
</div>
<div class="product-price"><span>$43.99</span></div>
<div class="product-delivery">FREE delivery Mon, Oct 14</div>
</div>

(a) Example of a part of a web page processed by the Perception Module

(b) The simplified HTML structure parsed by the browser environment

The search results display a product listing for the '1966 Ford F-100 Clear
Body: Slash, Slash 4x4'. This product has a rating of 4.3 out of 5 stars based
on 103 reviews and is priced at \$43.99 with free delivery on Monday, October
14.
(c) The observation memory produced by the Perception Module

Figure 4: Example of a part of a web page processed by the Univerasl Web Connector and the Perception Module. The Univerasl
Web Connector parses the raw web page (left) into a simplified HTML structure (right), and the Perception Module generates a
descriptive observation memory (bottom) for each segment.

one input (e.g. search box), thus to reduce the number of action
needed and to reduce hullucination, we also provide a composite
action type_and_submit, which is equivlent to typing and hitting
the “enter” key. Agents can also type then click on the submit
button.

B Prompt
B.1 Prompt for Persona Generatoin
Generate a persona using the above examples. The
persona should be different from previous personas to
ensure diversity. The persona should:
- Have the age of {age}
- Be {gender}
- Have an income between ${income_range[0]} and
${income_range[1]}
Provide the persona in the same format as the
examples.
Only output the persona, no other text.

C Example Data
C.1 Action Trace
Action 1: type_and_submit, description: Typing
'woman's jacket' into the search input field and
submitting the form.
Action 2: click, description: Clicking on the product
'Jackets For Women Womens Hooded Fleece Line Coats
Parkas Faux Fur Jackets with Pockets' to view its
details.
Action 3: click, description: Clicking on the 'Navy'
color option for the jacket.
Action 4: click, description: Clicking on the
'Medium' size option for the jacket.
Action 5: click, description: Clicking on the 'Add to
Cart' button to add the chosen product to the cart.

C.2

Memory Trace

This exam