# FULL TEXT — MLGym: A New Framework and Benchmark for Advancing AI Research Agents

https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14499v1

\mlgym: A New Framework and Benchmark for Advancing AI Research Agents 

 1 Introduction 
 
 1.1 Capability Levels for AI Research Agents 

 2 Related Work 

 2.1 AI Research Frameworks and Benchmarks 

 2.2 LLM Agents 

 2.3 Agents for Software Engineering and Data Science 

 2.4 Agents for Scientific Research 

 3 \mlgym 
 
 3.1 Agents 
 3.2 Environment 
 3.3 Datasets 
 3.4 Tasks 
 
 3.5 Tools and ACI 

 4 \mlgym -Bench 
 
 4.1 Data Science 
 4.2 3-SAT 
 
 4.3 Game Theory 

 4.4 Computer Vision 

 4.5 Natural Language Processing 

 4.6 Reinforcement Learning 

 5 Experimental Setup 
 
 5.1 Agent and Models 
 
 5.2 Environment Configuration 

 6 Evaluation 
 
 6.1 Performance Profiles and the AUP Score 
 
 6.2 Usage in \mlgym 

 7 Results 

 7.1 AUP Scores and Performance Profiles 

 7.2 Raw Performance Scores 

 7.3 Computational Cost 

 7.4 Agent Behavior Analysis 
 
 7.4.1 Failure Mode Analysis 
 
 7.4.2 Action Analysis 

 8 Discussion and Limitations 

 9 Ethical Considerations 

 10 Conclusions 

 11 Acknowledgments 

 12 Additional Results and Analysis 

 12.1 Computational Cost 

 12.2 Failure Mode Analysis 

 12.3 Action Analysis 

 12.4 Model Rankings 

 12.5 Memory Utilization 
 
 13 Prompts 

 1]University of California, Santa Barbara
2]University College London
3]University of Wisconsin–Madison
4]University of Oxford
5]PyTorch Core Libraries at Meta
6]FAIR at Meta
7]GenAI at Meta
 \contribution [†]Work done during internship at Meta 

 \mlgym : A New Framework and Benchmark for Advancing AI Research Agents 

 Deepak Nathani

 Lovish Madaan

 Nicholas Roberts

 Nikolay Bashlykov

 Ajay Menon

 Vincent Moens

 Amar Budhiraja

 Despoina Magka

 Vladislav Vorotilov

 Gaurav Chaurasia

 Dieuwke Hupkes

 Ricardo Silveira Cabral

 Tatiana Shavrina

 Jakob Foerster

 Yoram Bachrach

 William Yang Wang

 Roberta Raileanu
 
 [
 
 [
 
 [
 
 [
 
 [
 
 [
 
 [
 
 dnathani@ucsb.edu 
 
 raileanu@meta.com 

 (February 20, 2025) 
 
 Abstract 
 We introduce Meta \mlgym and \mlgym -Bench, a new framework and benchmark for evaluating and developing LLM agents on AI research tasks. This is the first Gym environment for machine learning (ML) tasks, enabling research on reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms for training such agents. \mlgym -bench consists of 13 diverse and open-ended AI research tasks from diverse domains such as computer vision, natural language processing, reinforcement learning, and game theory. Solving these tasks requires real-world AI research skills such as generating new ideas and hypotheses, creating and processing data, implementing ML methods, training models, running experiments, analyzing the results, and iterating through this process to improve on a given task. We evaluate a number of frontier large language models (LLMs) on our benchmarks such as Claude-3.5-Sonnet, Llama-3.1 405B, GPT-4o, o1-preview, and Gemini-1.5 Pro. Our \mlgym framework makes it easy to add new tasks, integrate and evaluate models or agents, generate synthetic data at scale, as well as develop new learning algorithms for training agents on AI research tasks. We find that current frontier models can improve on the given baselines, usually by finding better hyperparameters, but do not generate novel hypotheses, algorithms, architectures, or substantial improvements. We open-source our framework and benchmark to facilitate future research in advancing the AI research capabilities of LLM agents. 

 \correspondence 
 Deepak Nathani at , Roberta Raileanu at 
 \metadata [Code] https://github.com/facebookresearch/MLGym 

 1 Introduction 
 
 Accelerating scientific discovery has been a long-standing ambition in artificial intelligence (AI) research, with early initiatives like the Oak Ridge Applied Artificial Intelligence Project in 1979 exploring  (Team, 1985 ; Emrich et al., 1988 ; Johnson and Schaffer, 1994 ) . More recent explorations enabled by advances in foundation models  (Achiam et al., 2023 ; Anthropic, 2024 ; Team et al., 2024 ; Dubey et al., 2024 ) provide a proof-of-concept of a fully automated pipeline for end-to-end paper generation  (Lu et al., 2024 ) . In the future, we envision AI Research Agents capable of independently conducting literature search, generating scientific hypotheses, designing experiments, implementing new methods, analyzing results, disseminating findings by writing scientific papers, and applying this research in products, thus assisting with all parts of the research process. Such agents should be capable of both working fully autonomously, or be guided by human supervision, taking into account feedback from users. 

 This vision stems from the recognition that AI, with its capacity to process vast datasets and discern complex patterns, could accelerate scientific breakthroughs in areas such as drug discovery and materials science by identifying promising drug candidates or predicting the properties of novel materials  (Hessler and Baringhaus, 2018 ; Schneider et al., 2020 ; Guo et al., 2021 ) . Unlike traditional methods, AI agents can reveal hidden interdisciplinary relationships by analyzing vast knowledge graphs, leading to novel insights and solutions for complex challenges like climate modeling. By automating laborious tasks and exploring unconventional avenues, AI agents can liberate scientists to focus on higher-level cognitive activities, ultimately driving innovation and expanding the frontiers of knowledge. Machine learning (ML) research, with its emphasis on empirical validation and systematic experimentation in simulation, presents an ideal testbed for exploring and improving the utlity of LLMs for advancing scientific research. 

 Figure 1 : Diagram of \mlgym , a unified framework designed to integrate diverse and open-ended AI research tasks into a single platform for developing and evaluating LLM agents on these tasks. 

 However, the scientific method inherently relies on empirical validation, rigorous evaluation, and standardized benchmarks to ensure the reliability and reproducibility of findings. While significant progress has been made in developing AI agents for various domains  (Yang et al., 2024 ; Wu et al., 2024 ; Ma et al., 2024 ; Deng et al., 2023 ; Wang et al., 2023 ) , we currently lack comprehensive frameworks and benchmarks specifically designed to assess their capabilities in conducting open-ended AI research tasks in diverse domains. This absence of standardized evaluation tools hinders our ability to objectively measure progress and identify areas for improvement in this emerging field. 

 Recently, a number of papers have started to evaluate LLM agents on various SWE and ML tasks; notable examples include SWE-Bench (Jimenez et al., 2023 ) , SWE-agent  (Yang et al., 2024 ) , ScienceAgentBench  (Chen et al., 2024 ) , SUPER  (Bogin et al., 2024 ) , MLE-Bench  (Chan et al., 2024 ) , MLAgentBench  (Huang et al., 2024 ) , and RE-Bench  (METR, 2024 ) .
However, existing benchmarks for AI Research Agents either do not include open-ended research tasks, or only cover a narrow range of research domains. In addition, existing frameworks are not designed to enable research on different training algorithms for AI Research Agents such as reinforcement learning, curriculum learning, or open-ended learning. Finally, current frameworks do not allow flexible artifacts to be evaluated (e.g. different outputs of the agent’s research such as a model, algorithm, or set of predictions). 

 In this paper, we introduce \mlgym —the first Gym  (Brockman et al., 2016 ) environment for AI Research Agents and a unified framework designed to integrate diverse and open-ended AI research tasks into a single platform for developing and evaluating LLM agents on such tasks (see Figure 1 for a diagram of \mlgym ). Being a Gym environment, our framework enables research on different training algorithms for AI Research Agents such as reinforcement learning (RL), curriculum learning, and open-ended learning.
We also release \mlgym -Bench, a curated set of 13
open-ended research tasks, covering a wide range of domains such as computer vision, natural language processing, reinforcement learning, and game theory, carefully crafted to evaluate the performance of agents in realistic, multifaceted workflows.
 \mlgym and \mlgym -Bench expand the range of problems considered by current LLM agent frameworks and benchmarks, by offering the ability to flexibly evaluate performance on open-ended research tasks. For example, performance can be measured based on various artefacts such as model weights, RL training algorithms, or code representing game theory strategies.
We compare five frontier LLMs across the tasks in \mlgym -Bench under consistent experimental settings, highlighting their strengths and limitations.
Finally, we propose a new evaluation metric for agents, adapted from the optimization  (Dolan and Moré, 2002 ) and automated machine learning  (AutoML; Roberts et al., 2022a ) literature, to more fairly assess the relative performance of LLM agents across tasks with their own distinct performance metrics. 

 To summarize our contributions, we (i) introduce \mlgym , the first Gym environment for evaluating and developing AI Research Agents, (ii) release \mlgym -Bench, a suite of diverse open-ended AI research tasks for evaluating LLM agents, (iii) propose a new evaluation metric for comparing multiple agents on a variety of tasks, and (iv) extensively evaluate frontier LLMs on \mlgym -Bench. Finally, \mlgym makes it easy for researchers and developers to integrate and evaluate new tasks, agents, or models. 

 In the rest of the paper, we discuss related LLM agent frameworks and benchmarks, provide an overview of the \mlgym framework, introduce the mechanics behind \mlgym -Bench and its evaluation, present our experimental setup and results, and conclude with a discussion of limitations and future extensions. 

 1.1 Capability Levels for AI Research Agents 
 
 We propose a hierarchical framework to categorize the capabilities of LLM agents for accelerating AI research.
This framework consists of six levels, each representing a distinct degree of autonomy and scientific contribution. 

 Level 0: Reproduction 
At this level, LLM agents can reproduce existing research papers either with or without access to the original code.
This level demonstrates a basic understanding of the research domain and the ability to replicate established results. 

 Level 1: Baseline Improvement 
At Level 1, LLM agents can improve performance on a benchmark given a baseline code that is not state-of-the-art (SOTA).
This level indicates the ability to analyze and optimize existing solutions, even if they are not the most advanced. 

 Level 2: SOTA Achievement 
At Level 2, LLM agents can achieve SOTA performance on a benchmark given only a task description and access to the published literature before the invention of the SOTA approach, but no access to the SOTA paper or code.
This level demonstrates the ability to come up with a solution to an open research problem which is as good as the one found by humans. 

 Level 3: Novel Scientific Contribution 
At Level 3, LLM agents can make a novel scientific contribution, such as coming up with a new method that establishes a new SOTA on multiple benchmarks, and is worthy of publication at a top ML conference such as NeurIPS. 

 Level 4: Groundbreaking Scientific Contribution 
At Level 4, LLM agents can identify key research questions, directions, solutions, and make a notable scientific contribution worthy of being published as an oral or best paper award at a prestigious ML conference such as NeurIPS. 

 Level 5: Long-Term Research Agenda 
At Level 5, LLM agents can pursue a long-term research agenda, coming up with the research questions, directions, and solutions, continuously producing scientific discoveries over the span of weeks, months, or years. LLMs at this level should be capable of paradigm-shifting research breakthroughs worthy of prizes such as Nobel or Turing. 

 By defining these capability levels, we provide a framework for evaluating frontier AI Research Agents. 

 \mlgym 
 -Bench focuses on Level 1: Baseline Improvement of the categorisation defined above. 

 2 Related Work 

 2.1 AI Research Frameworks and Benchmarks 
 
 Section 2.1 shows a comparison between \mlgym and \mlgym -Bench with other related LLM agent frameworks and benchmarks. Below, we expand on the differences between \mlgym and these works. 

 {NiceTabular} lcccccc
Benchmark Gym Interface Algorithmic Tasks Open-Ended Research Flexible Artifacts Agentic Harness 
 \mlgym (ours) ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
 MLE-Bench ✕ ✕ ✕ ✕ ✕
 SWE-Bench/Agent ✕ ✕ ✕ ✕ ✓
 MLAgentBench ✕ ✕ ✓ ✓ ✓
 RE-Bench ✕ ✕ ✓ ✓ ✕
 ScienceAgentBench ✕ ✕ ✕ ✕ ✕

 Table 1 : Comparison of \mlgym and \mlgym -Bench with other related LLM agent frameworks and benchmarks. Algorithmic Tasks refers to the inclusion of tasks that require coming up with new algorithms such as reinforcement learning, game theory or SAT problems. Open-ended Research refers to the inclusion of tasks that are not fully solved by the research community and where multiple new solutions could be discovered such as language modeling, game theory or SAT problems. Flexible Artifacts refers to the allowance of different research artifacts such as model weights, reinforcement learning algorithms, or code capturing an agent’s strategy. 
 
 First, \mlgym is the first framework for AI Research Agents that provides a Gym interface, making it easy to integrate and train these agents using RL algoritms. \mlgym -Bench is also the first benchmark to include tasks that require research on algorithms in multiple domains such as RL, game theory, or SAT. 

 Second, \mlgym -Bench encompasses a wide range of open-ended AI research tasks, covering supervised learning, language modeling, reinforcement learning, game theory and SAT.
In contrast, SWE-Bench/SWE-Agent  (Yang et al., 2024 ) focuses on solving Github issues so the code changes either fix the code or not (as opposed to optmization tasks with finer-grained metrics, such as a loss metric in a supervised learning problem).
Similarly, MLE-Bench  (Chan et al., 2024 ) includes narrowly scoped machine learning tasks from Kaggle competitions.
While these tasks have a spectrum of quality levels, they tend to be already solved by current state-of-the-art methods.
On the other hand, MLAgentBench  (Huang et al., 2024 ) contains both ML-specialized tasks (regression, classification, code speed improvements) and tasks focused on recent research challenges (e.g. CLRS reasoning corpus  (Veličković et al., 2022 ) , BabyLM challenge  (Oba et al., 2023 ) ).
RE-bench  (METR, 2024 ) also consists of broadly scoped ML engineering tasks which are hard to saturate and reward increasingly sophisticated approaches.
ScienceAgentBench  (Chen et al., 2024 ) incorporates data-driven scientific discovery tasks extracted from peer-reviewed publications, but which are so specific that they resemble Kaggle competition rather than open research questions. 

 Third, \mlgym allows for flexible evaluation artifacts: it is sufficient to provide python code that the agent can call to examine the quality of its current solution, such as a model checkpoint or an RL algorithm.
In contrast, MLE-Bench requires a CSV file to be submitted for grading each question and SWE-Bench/Agent require evaluating a piece of code through a collection of unit tests. MLAgentBench, RE-Bench and ScienceAgentBench provide Python scripts to compute the evaluation scores. 

 Finally, \mlgym enables easy evaluation of both models and agents. To facilitate model evaluation, \mlgym provides a default agentic harness that can be used out-of-the-box to evaluate any base model. 

 2.2 LLM Agents 
 
 Research on tool-augmented LLMs  (Schick et al., 2023 ) has inspired a new research agenda of “agentic” LLMs  (Kaddour et al., 2023 ; Wang et al., 2024a ) , where LLMs interact with an external environment. Existing work explores teaching LLMs to use tools or APIs (Schick et al., 2023 ; Qin et al., 2023 ) , navigate the web  (Nakano et al., 2022 ; Deng et al., 2023 ; Zhou et al., 2023 ) , interface with operating systems  (Wu et al., 2024 ) , play games  (Paglieri et al., 2024 ; Wang et al., 2023 ) , or interact with other simulated  (Wang et al., 2024b ; Lin et al., 2023 ) or physical worlds  (Zhang et al., 2024a ) . Evaluating agentic LLMs typically involves designing controlled environments, providing suitable tools, defining tasks and goals, and establishing quantitative metrics to measure the system’s performance. 

 Building on these directions,  Yoran et al. ( 2024 ) introduce AssistantBench , emphasizing the complexity of open-web navigation and showcasing how current systems struggle with realistic, time-consuming tasks such as monitoring real-estate markets or identifying nearby businesses. Meanwhile,  Kapoor et al. ( 2024 ) highlight the importance of standardized evaluation protocols that consider both accuracy and cost, warning against overfitting and advocating for more reproducible benchmarks. Extending these concerns to multi-dimensional environments,  Liu et al. ( 2023 ) propose AgentBench —a suite of eight interactive settings that test agents’ capacity for reasoning, decision-making, and long-term instruction following. Similarly,  Mialon et al. ( 2023 ) focus on holistic planning skills through GAIA , a benchmark designed to assess performance on real-world questions requiring robust tool-use and multimodal reasoning, revealing substantial gaps between human-level proficiency and current LLMs. Finally,  Trivedi et al. ( 2024 ) emphasize the necessity of sophisticated tool integration with AppWorld , an interactive environment where agents must operate diverse applications via APIs and generate complex code in an iterative fashion. Collectively, these works underscore not only the breadth of agentic LLM capabilities but also the pressing need for systematic, multifaceted benchmarks that capture complex tasks with verifiable results and foster reproducible progress in the field. However, none of these works focuses on evaluating or developing LLM agents for open-ended AI research tasks. 

 2.3 Agents for Software Engineering and Data Science 
 
 In line with the principle of reproducibility and verifiability, software engineering tasks provide a testbed for LLM agents, where tasks can be tightly scoped and outcomes rigorously measured. Recent work has explored how agents can tackle code-level challenges in controlled settings that permit systematic evaluation. As discussed above,  Yang et al. ( 2024 ) introduce SWE-agent , which operates within a constrained agent-computer interface to facilitate file creation, repository navigation, and code testing—thereby enhancing both traceability and reproducibility on benchmarks such as SWE-bench and HumanEvalFix. Similarly,  Wang et al. ( 2024c ) describe OpenHands , a platform that restricts agent interactions to sandboxed environments for safer command execution and verifiable web browsing, and in doing so provides a standardized foundation for benchmarking. Magentic-One   (Fourney et al., 2024 ) is another agentic system competent in software engineering but also augmented with web navigation capabilities, as demonstrated by its strong performance on the GAIA, AssistantBench and WebArena (Zhou et al., 2023 ) agentic benchmarks. On the other hand,   Zhang et al. ( 2024b ) achieve competitive perforemance on SWE-bench with AutoCodeRover, which, unlike the agentic approaches, solves Github issues by combining LLM-based programming with program representation as an abstract syntax tree. 

 Towards the goal of automating data science work, Li et al. ( 2024 ) introduce AutoKaggle, a multi-agent human-assisting system, and Grosnit et al. ( 2024 ) present AgentK v1.0, an end-to-end autonomous data science agent; both of these systems perform well on Kaggle competition data. Still within the realm of data science work, Lei et al. ( 2024 ) build Spider 2.0, a challenging benchmark and code agent framework for automating text-to-SQL workflows. Going one step further, Cao et al. ( 2024 ) introduce Spider 2-V, an autonomous multimodal agent coupled with a benchmark focusing on the automation of enterprise data science and engineering workflows. 

 More search-oriented approaches include SWE-Search   (Antoniades et al., 2024 ) , a multi-agent framework that marries Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) with iterative refinement, enabling agents to continuously evaluate and improve their approaches to repository-level tasks. In a similar vein, Koh et al. ( 2024b ) explore tree search for LLM agents and show that equipping LLM agents with best-first search boosts performane for the WebArena and VisualWebArena (Koh et al., 2024a ) agentic benchmarks. Also on augmenting LLM agents with search, Yu et al. ( 2025 ) propose MCTS-based test-time search and self-learning techniques that yield better performance on VisualWebArena. Finally,  Xia et al. ( 2024 ) demonstrate that even relatively simple approaches can excel when thoroughly monitored: an ’agentless’ system follows a three-step process and outperforms more complex agent-based methods on SWE-bench Lite, underscoring the value of constrained, verifiable environments in driving reproducible gains for autonomous SWE agents. 

 2.4 Agents for Scientific Research 
 
 Controlled SWE contexts build the foundation for more complex automation while maintaining a reproducible and verifiable approach. However, just the software foundations alone are not sufficient to address the remaining gaps towards the goal of science acceleration. Going from the limited environments and well-defined tasks with metrics towards a less-defined area of open-ended questions, there are substantial efforts needed to boost the capabilities of research agents. For instance, coming up with automatable criteria to gauge scientific novelty or constructing theories inheriting the automated findings from heterogeneous disciplines are examples of areas that could use more refinement and experimentation. 

 Nevertheless, the first steps on this path can be started now - in the field of ML research and data science - since these areas represent for us a scientific playground with tasks that are both well-defined and have formal criteria of verifiability (benchmarks and tests), falsifiability (ablation studies and tests for data leakage, memorization, out of domain generalization, etc) and reproducibility. 

 Data Science 

 Many recent works approach both classic data science tasks and real-life repository-based tasks as a testbed for agents with a known test set and metrics.
While based on similar grounds, the works differ in the resulting levels of autonomy of the agents. For instance, ML-Bench (Tang et al., 2024 ) focuses on explicit tasks within existing GitHub repositories — evaluating agents in code-centric setups without delving into open-ended objectives. By contrast, Data Interpreter (Hong et al., 2024 ) extends agent testing to broader data science problems, spanning coding tasks, mathematical reasoning, and a limited suite of open-ended applications (e.g., OCR, web search, and mini-game generation), thus reflecting a more flexible approach to autonomy. The agentic benchmark SUPER (Bogin et al., 2024 ) raises the bar by requiring the agent to formulate the task itself and iterate on NLP-related data and tasks within research repositories, thereby emphasizing self-directed problem-solving. 

 AI Research 

 The presence of models and simulations in machine learning itself inevitably leads to the fact that this area also becomes the object of automation.
Having an agent formulating a task itself and approaching open-ended tasks naturally leads to automatic agentic enhancement of the machine learning methods themselves. AutoML  (Eggensperger et al., 2019 ; Lindauer and Hutter, 2020 ; Tornede et al., 2023 ) and NAS  (Elsken et al., 2019 ; Nasir et al., 2024 ) approaches have been previously paving the foundations of ML automation within environments with built-in restrictions (an explicit set of methods, definition of the search space and strategy), while the agentic approach can propose open-ended solutions without said specifications. 

 For example, MLAgentBench   (Huang et al., 2024 ) consists of an environment for agents to solve 13 complex tasks ranging from improving image classification to language modeling, with the current state-of-the-art LLMs achieving 0% success rate for the most difficult of these tasks. The proposed pipelines for agents in the environment include designing and running experiments, analyzing the results, and iterating towards improving the defined metrics. Similarly, RE-Bench (Research Engineering Benchmark)  (METR, 2024 ) is a set of 7 diverse and challenging ML tasks with the methodological addition of real human experts involvement and progress comparison: timed sessions for ML experts vs LLM agents. Authors state that the best agents achieve a score 4x higher than human experts when both are given a total time budget of 2 hours per environment. However, humans currently display better returns to increased time budgets, narrowly exceeding the top AI agent scores given an 8-hour budget, and achieving 2x the score of the top agent when both are given 32 total hours. MLE-bench   (Chan et al., 2024 ) focuses on Kaggle tasks as a source for agentic evaluations. Agents are evaluated across well-defined metrics, datasets, and real competition result distribution. The attempts are limited to 24 hours. However, in contrast with \mlgym , all these works contain a more narrow set of domains that do not assess algorithmic reasoning capabilities. Moreover, some of them do not provide a standardized agentic harness to allow for model evaluation, but they vary both the harnesses (also known as scaffolds ) and the LLMs when comparing performances. While our work focuses on creating an evaluation framework with objective and standardized evaluation metrics, other recent works focus on developing an agentic harness for the more subjective task of generating papers based on end-to-end experimental cycles (Lu et al., 2024 ) . 

 Scientific Discovery 

 Several recent works have approached scientific automation with LLM agents targeting the process of scientific discovery. DiscoveryWorld   (Jansen et al., 2024 ) is a benchmark for scientific agents being evaluated in a game-like virtual discovery environment. 120 tasks require an agent to form hypotheses, design and run experiments, analyze results, and act on conclusions – for areas like proteomics, chemistry, archeology, physics, agriculture, rocket science, linguistics, or epidemiology. The custom simulation engine only supports a limited list of objects and 14 possible actions.
A distinctive feature of the work is also that it focuses on general discovery skills rather than task-specific solution, and the assessment, space of objects and actions is common to all scientific domains. 

 ScienceAgentBench (Chen et al., 2024 ) , however, approaches differently the similar task of creating a discovery-based agentic benchmark: the tasks are based on 44 cherry-picked peer-reviewed publications that include data-driven discovery tasks with well-defined metrics.
The scientific areas covered include bioinformatics, computational chemistry, geographical information science, and neuroscience yielding 102 tasks of various types, such as data processing, modeling or visualization. Each task is defined by Python-based evaluation environment, end result metrics and intermediate evaluation criteria. Special metrics control data contamination and agent shortcut issues. Comparing different baselines, including pure LLMs with prompting, authors state that execution feedback is necessary for agents to generate useful solutions. 

 The idea of execution feedback and iterative improvement for research tasks has been proposed in ResearchAgent   (Baek et al., 2024 ) . Agentic concept-based approach with literature-based discovery shows great improvement for end-to-end iterative solution generation, also supported by knowledge-based vs random facts ablations.
The agent is evaluated solely with subjective human preference annotation and automatic human preference evals. While covering structured aspects of end-to-end experimental pipeline (problem clarity, feasibility, significance, relevance, originality, method generalizability, innovativeness, experiment reproducibility, validity, etc), relying solely on human judgment without supporting it with objective metrics is insufficient, as  Si et al. ( 2024 ) shows. 

 3 \mlgym 

 An LLM agent can perform ML research/development by interacting with a shell environment through a sequence of commands.
Given a task description, some starter code and access to its action and observation history, the LLM generates appropriate shell commands to accomplish research objectives like generating ideas, processing data, implementing new methods, training and evaluating models, analyzing the results, and reasoning about what experiments to run next.
The agent is iteratively prompted to take actions based on the task description and execution feedback from previous commands, allowing it to develop and self-refine the solutions in-context. 

 The \mlgym framework provides a unified framework for evaluating and developing agents and models for AI research tasks. We take inspiration from long existing field of RL and build a Gym   (Brockman et al., 2016 ) environment that can execute shell commands in a local docker machine shell.
 \mlgym provides access to four core components: Agents, Environment, Datasets, and Tasks . \mlgym ’s modular design allows one to easily utilize and extend the library.
For example, researchers can easily implement other agentic harnesses to improve performance, they can expand the environment by adding more tools for an agent, add more datasets within a given task (e.g., if the task is image classification they could add ImageNet in addition to Cifar-10), and they can even add more tasks to the \mlgym benchmark. Below, we discuss each component in detail. 

 3.1 Agents 
 
 The Agent class provided by \mlgym acts as a wrapper around a base LLM and provides functionality for integrating various base models, history processors, and cost management.
Moreover, unlike other frameworks  (Huang et al., 2024 ; Yang et al., 2024 ) , \mlgym separates the agent from the environment, allowing for easy integration of external agents.
This also enables one to fairly compare different base models given the same agentic harness without the need of implementing their own agentic orchestration. 

 The agent is expected to take the history of all prior observations and actions as input and return the next action to take. The provided action is then passed to the environment, which executes the command and returns the next observation based on the command output.
The agent can execute any bash command in the environment. In addition, it has access to a set of tools (i.e., bash scripts such as editing a file) that it can use similarly to any other bash command.
 \mlgym provides an agent adapted from SWE-Agent  (Yang et al., 2024 ) as a default agentic harness.
We describe the design and configuration of the tools in  Section 3.5 . The full system prompt used can be found in  LABEL:lst:system_prompt . 

 3.2 Environment 
 
 \mlgym 
 environments are designed as Gymnasium ( gym ) environments (Towers et al., 2024 ) .
The environment component is responsible for initializing a shell environment in a local docker machine , with all the required tools, installing task-specific python dependencies , copying all the necessary data and code in a separate agent workspace and managing interactions between the LLM agent and the system.
Moreover, to support open-ended research tasks and make the environment safe and flexible, \mlgym environment also manages permissions for various files and directories.
Specifically, when running in a docker container, due to various security concerns associated with using a root user, we create a non-root user named "agent" and set the appropriate permissions for the working directory. 

 In this work, we make a conscious decision to decouple tools and ACI as defined in SWE-Agent (Yang et al., 2024 ) 1 1 1 As of the latest release, SWE-Agent also decouples tools/ACI from the agent. .
Note that this ensures that the agent and environment are not tightly coupled, allowing for easier implementation of other agentic architectures.
Practically, this means that when the environment is initialized, it also initializes the tools in the working environment and a tool documentation is prepared which can be added to the LLM agent’s prompt. More details about the tools are provided in Section 3.5 . 

 3.3 Datasets 
 
 \mlgym 
 provides a simple abstraction for defining datasets through configuration files.
It supports both locally stored and Hugging Face datasets.
We decouple the dataset definition from the task definition, so that a single dataset can be used in multiple tasks. Similarly, a single task can have more than one dataset so that the agent’s code can be evaluated across all of them to demonstrate the generality of the implemented method. 

 Moreover, if the dataset files are stored locally, the environment automatically copies the relevant files to the agent workspace with read-only permissions.
This ensures that the agent cannot change the dataset files, which is important for reproducibility and cheating prevention. 

 If the dataset is stored in Hugging Face, the agent is given the dataset URL through the starter code or in the prompt and asked to utilize it.
Note that if the LLM agent fails to follow instructions or uses a different dataset, the evaluation code will not work or result in performance issues. 

 3.4 Tasks 
 
 We provide an easy abstraction to define any ML research task using configuration files.
Each task can incorporate one or more datasets, custom evaluation scripts (with read-only access), task-specific conda environment, optional starter code, training timeouts, and memory management settings.
This provides a flexible framework for defining diverse open-ended ML research tasks covering a wide range of difficulty. For example, one can define an easier version of a task by providing a baseline code and a harder version by providing no starter code or one with bugs, thus creating a natural curriculum. 

 Evaluation is a critical component for any ML task.
Every task requires a different evaluation protocol; thus, Kaggle-style evaluation as done in MLE-Bench  (Chan et al., 2024 ) where the agent is expected to submit a CSV file is not feasible for every problem.
For example, in reinforcement learning settings, the evaluation artifact is a set of models trained on a set of pre-defined random seeds, which is then used to get a mean reward across a set of environment seeds. Similarly for Game Theoretic tasks, it can be a Python file with a strategy function which will be evaluated against a fixed set of strategy functions.
Since we aim to evaluate the agent on open-ended and diverse tasks, it is not possible to convert all submissions to a CSV format.
To ensure extensibility to such open-ended tasks, the task definition is expected to provide an evaluation script and submission artifact instructions.
The LLM agent can then be prompted to follow the submission instructions and write the appropriate code.
Moreover, the evaluation script is read-only for the LM agent, so while it can inspect the evaluation format, it cannot modify the script to change the evaluation logic.

 Existing works such as  Huang et al. ( 2024 ); METR ( 2024 ); Chen et al. ( 2024 ) also use a script based evaluation approach, whereas MLE-Bench (Chan et al., 2024 ) uses a Kaggle style evaluation. 

 All our design decisions for the Agent, Environment, Dataset, and Tasks are meant to reduce overhead on the developers’ and researchers’ side and enhance reproducibility in this newly emerging area. 

 3.5 Tools and ACI 
 
 Augmenting LLM agents with the ability of using external tools is a critical component for making progress on knowledge-intensive tasks.
In this work, we extend the ACI (agent-computer interface) first introduced in SWE-Agent (Yang et al., 2024 ) with some additional features required for an ML research agent.
Specifically, we extend the commands for search, navigation, file viewer, file editor and context management with our permission management system and introduce new commands for literature search and a memory module.
For example, if the agent tries to open a file without read permission, the file viewer tool will generate textual feedback for the agent. Similarly, if agent tries to edit the evaluation script (which is marked as read-only), the edit tools will output a feedback string instead of failing silently.
Literature search and the ability to maintain a experimental log in it’s memory are crucial for the agent to surpass SOTA solutions on open-ended research tasks. 

 Similar to SWE-Agent, tools are defined as bash or python scripts and are made available as bash commands in the environment. 

 All tool documentation is provided to the agent in the system prompt. See Section 3.5 for a description of the available tools. 

 {NiceTabular} cccc
Category Tool Arguments Documentation 
 SWE-Agent Tools 
 Search search_dir search ⁢ _ ⁢ term ⁢ [ dir ] expectation search _ term delimited-[] expectation dir \mathrm{ search\_term [ dir ]} roman_search _ roman_term [ roman_dir ] searches for the search term in all files in dir 
 search_file search ⁢ _ ⁢ term ⁢ [ file ] expectation search _ term delimited-[] expectation file \mathrm{ search\_term [ file ]} roman_search _ roman_term [ roman_file ] searches for the search term in the given file 
 find_file f ⁢ i ⁢ l ⁢ e ⁢ _ ⁢ n ⁢ a ⁢ m ⁢ e ⁢ [ d ⁢ i ⁢ r ] expectation 𝑓 𝑖 𝑙 𝑒 _ 𝑛 𝑎 𝑚 𝑒 delimited-[] expectation 𝑑 𝑖 𝑟 file\_name [ dir ] italic_f italic_i italic_l italic_e _ italic_n italic_a italic_m italic_e [ italic_d italic_i italic_r ] finds all the files with the given name in dir 
 File Viewer open path ⁢ [ line ⁢ _ ⁢ number ] expectation path delimited-[] expectation line _ number \mathrm{ path [ line\_number ]} roman_path [ roman_line _ roman_number ] opens the given file and goes to the line number 
 goto line ⁢ _ ⁢ number expectation line _ number \mathrm{ line\_number } roman_line _ roman_number moves the window to show the line number 
 scroll_down moves the window down 1000 lines 
 scroll_up moves the window up 1000 lines 
 File editing create filename expectation filename \mathrm{ filename } roman_filename creates a new file 
 insert line ⁢ _ ⁢ number ⁢ text ⁢ _ ⁢ to ⁢ _ ⁢ add absent line _ number expectation text _ to _ add \mathrm{ line\_number text\_to\_add } roman_line _ roman_number roman_text _ roman_to _ roman_add inserts the given text at line number in the open file 
 edit start _ line : end _ line replacement _ text \mathrm{ start\_line : end\_line replacement\_text } roman_start _ roman_line : roman_end _ roman_line roman_replacement _ roman_text replaces the given lines with the given text in the open file 
 Evaluation validate validates the current submission file and returns the metrics on the test set 
 submit submits the current code and terminates the session 
 Extended Tools 
 Literature Search literature_search query ⁢ [ num ⁢ _ ⁢ results ] expectation query delimited-[] expectation num _ results \mathrm{ query [ num\_results ]} roman_query [ roman_num _ roman_results ] query Semantic Scholar API for papers with attached PDFs 
 parse_pdf_url url expectation url \mathrm{ url } roman_url downloads and extracts the contents of a PDF given a URL 
 Memory Module memory_write content ⁢ _ ⁢ str expectation content _ str \mathrm{ content\_str } roman_content _ roman_str save important results, configs or findings to memory 
 memory_read query ⁢ _ ⁢ str expectation query _ str \mathrm{ query\_str } roman_query _ roman_str retrieve top-2 elements from memory most similar to a query 

 Table 2 : List of tools available to agents. Required arguments are enclosed in absent and optional arguments are in [ ] [] [ ] . 
 
 Validation and Submit 
We provide two commands to the agent to validate the submission and submit the results.
Both the validate and submit commands are used to run the evaluation script and give the agent feedback on its current score on the test set.
However, while the submit command is a terminal action, i.e., the agent’s trajectory is terminated, and the evaluation script is executed to log the final scores, the validate command can be used as many times as needed during the run to get the current performance on the test set. 

 Addition of a validation command helps the agent to continuously improve its performance on the test set. 

 Literature Search and PDF Parser 
We provide the agent with two tools to find and extract knowledge from external sources. The Literature Search tool allows the agent to query the Semantic Scholar API to find research papers about a given query that have open-access PDFs available, and the PDF Parsing tool allows the agent to download PDFs and convert them into a text-based representation. The paper contents can be stored in the context window as well as the Memory Module for longer-term tasks. Combined, these two tools allow the agent to find and analyze research papers as part of its workflow. See  Section 3.5 for more information about these tools and how they are called. 

 Memory Module - Research Logs 
We introduce the Memory Module for \mlgym , an important tool to improve the performance of agents on long-horizon AI research tasks. The Memory Module enables the agent to persistently store critical findings and successful training configurations using a structured memory system, overcoming the challenge of limited context retention in long tasks. During our experiments, we observed that when the agent has access to the memory module, it can retrieve the best training configuration from memory and continue to iterate on it (see   Figure 11 and Figure 12 ). Without the memory module, the agent’s trajectory can become longer than the model’s context length, thus not being able to retrieve the best configuration, effectively forgetting older experiments and only being able to locally iterate on recent configurations. 

 The module is equipped with two core functions: memory_write and memory_read . The memory_write function allows the agent to store key insights and effective configurations by saving text data along with its corresponding embeddings and tags in JSON format. In contrast, the memory_read method retrieves the top-k most relevant stored entries based on cosine similarity with a given query, allowing the agent to review past knowledge and iterate from previously successful configurations. 

 Empirical results demonstrate the positive impact of the Memory Module on long-horizon tasks. Agents equipped with the Memory Module were able to sustain progress over extended sequences of trials, reusing optimal configurations and findings to achieve superior results compared to agents limited by fixed context windows. To further enhance its capabilities, we added the state of the memory to the system prompt (memory tags and number of records) so that the agent is aware of the type of data stored. Tags from a memory record are extracted by identifying the 3-gram most closely matching to the memory record. 

 This module significantly reduces the limitations of constrained context length, allowing agents to operate effectively in long experimental settings. However, it is an early version and there are many ways to improve the module. For example, one possible direction would be to introduce a more structured memory format, such as hierarchical or relational models, allowing for precise storage and retrieval of information and enabling more complex reasoning over stored knowledge. Another is to incorporate memory operations directly into the model’s training or fine-tuning process to allow the agent to natively utilize stored knowledge for improved performance. Or using a sub-agent that will automatically manage the memory by selecting important insights, removing unnecessary entries, and updating the memory. Each of these directions would require extensive experimentation and rigorous testing to ensure robustness and scalability. 

 For all the experiments presented in this paper, the agent only uses the SWE-Agent tools and validation command. 

 4 \mlgym -Bench 
 
 The primary motivation behind our benchmark is to challenge models across different aspects of machine learning, including data handling, model architecture, and strategic decision-making.
By incorporating tasks from data science, game theory, computer vision, natural language processing, and reinforcement learning, the benchmark aims to provide a varied and comprehensive agent evaluation testbed. 

 The tasks included in the benchmark are carefully selected to represent real-world challenges, ensuring that models are tested on their ability to generalize and perform effectively across various scenarios.
Each task is accompanied by standardized evaluation scripts and baseline implementations, providing a clear reference point for performance assessment and comparison. 

 The benchmark suite is structured into four main categories, each focusing on a specific domain of machine learning: Data Science, Game Theory, Computer Vision, Natural Language Processing, and Reinforcement Learning.
Below we describe each of the tasks in the benchmark. 

 4.1 Data Science 
 
 House Price Prediction   (Kaggle, 2016 ) In the House Price Prediction task, the goal is to predict housing prices using the Kaggle House Price dataset.
This task evaluates models based on their ability to accurately predict prices from various features, using RMSE and R2 as performance metrics.
The baseline for this task is a simple Ridge Regression model with minimal feature engineering. 

 4.2 3-SAT 
 
 3-SAT   (Cook, 1971 ) In the 3-SAT task, the LLM agent is given a DPLL code and is prompted to optimize the variable selection heuristic.
The associated DPLL code is stored in a read-only file, and the agent can inspect it to structure its heuristic function code, however, it cannot modify it.
A simple random selection heuristic is used as a baseline and starter code for the LLM agent.
The performance is measured by the total wall-clock time taken to solve a set of 100 generated 3-SAT instances. The instances are genereted using the algorithm described in  Selsam et al. ( 2018 ) . 

 4.3 Game Theory 
 
 We consider several tasks related to making strategic choices in iterated games, considering multiple well-known games.
Specifically, we consider the task of producing code for a strategy for playing in a repeated two-player game.
In each such task we provide an opponent strategy, in the form of an opponent bot for playing the game, and ask the agent to produce code for a strategy for best-responding to this opponent, i.e. provide code for a strategy that maximizes the score against that opponent.
We very briefly review game theory terminology, with various textbooks covering this topic in more detail  (Fudenberg and Tirole, 1991 ) . 

 In a two-player normal form game G 𝐺 G italic_G , players select actions simultaneously, with the outcome determined by the choices of both players.
Let A 1 = { a 1 1 , … , a k 1 } superscript 𝐴 1 subscript superscript 𝑎 1 1 … subscript superscript 𝑎 1 𝑘 A^{1}=\{a^{1}_{1},\ldots,a^{1}_{k}\} italic_A start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT = { italic_a start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , … , italic_a start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_k end_POSTSUBSCRIPT } be the (pure) strategies available to player 1 1 1 1 and let A 2 = { a 1 2 , … , a m 2 } superscript 𝐴 2 subscript superscript 𝑎 2 1 … subscript superscript 𝑎 2 𝑚 A^{2}=\{a^{2}_{1},\ldots,a^{2}_{m}\} italic_A start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT 2 end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT = { italic_a start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT 2 end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , … , italic_a start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT 2 end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_m end_POSTSUBSCRIPT } be the strategies available to player 2 2 2 2 .
Denote the set of strategy profiles , consisting of a strategy choice for both players as A = A 1 × A 2 𝐴 subscript 𝐴 1 subscript 𝐴 2 A=A_{1}\times A_{2} italic_A = italic_A start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT × italic_A start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 2 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT .
The utility of the players depends on the actions selected by both for them, i.e. the payoffs are u : A → ℝ n : 𝑢 → 𝐴 superscript ℝ 𝑛 u:A\rightarrow\mathbb{R}^{n} italic_u : italic_A → blackboard_R start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT italic_n end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT , where u ⁢ ( a ) = ( u 1 ⁢ ( a ) , u 2 ⁢ ( a ) ) 𝑢 𝑎 subscript 𝑢 1 𝑎 subscript 𝑢 2 𝑎 u(a)=(u_{1}(a),u_{2}(a)) italic_u ( italic_a ) = ( italic_u start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ( italic_a ) , italic_u start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 2 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ( italic_a ) ) for a ∈ A 𝑎 𝐴 a\in A italic_a ∈ italic_A , and where each player i 𝑖 i italic_i tries to maximize their individual utility u i subscript 𝑢 𝑖 u_{i} italic_u start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_i end_POSTSUBSCRIPT .
A mixed strategy is a probability distribution Δ Δ \Delta roman_Δ over pure strategies.
Given a mixed strategy profile σ = ( σ 1 , σ 2 ) 𝜎 subscript 𝜎 1 subscript 𝜎 2 \sigma=(\sigma_{1},\sigma_{2}) italic_σ = ( italic_σ start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_σ start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 2 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ) the expected utility of u i subscript 𝑢 𝑖 u_{i} italic_u start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_i end_POSTSUBSCRIPT of player i 𝑖 i italic_i is
 u i ⁢ ( σ 1 , σ 2 ) = ∑ ( a 1 , a 2 ) ∈ A σ 1 ⁢ ( a 1 ) ⁢ σ 2 ⁢ ( a 2 ) ⁢ u i ⁢ ( a 1 , a 2 ) subscript 𝑢 𝑖 subscript 𝜎 1 subscript 𝜎 2 subscript subscript 𝑎 1 subscript 𝑎 2 𝐴 subscript 𝜎 1 subscript 𝑎 1 subscript 𝜎 2 subscript 𝑎 2 subscript 𝑢 𝑖 subscript 𝑎 1 subscript 𝑎 2 u_{i}(\sigma_{1},\sigma_{2})=\sum_{(a_{1},a_{2})\in A}\sigma_{1}(a_{1})\sigma_%
{2}(a_{2})u_{i}(a_{1},a_{2}) italic_u start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_i end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ( italic_σ start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_σ start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 2 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ) = ∑ start_POSTSUBSCRIPT ( italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 2 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ) ∈ italic_A end_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_σ start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ( italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ) italic_σ start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 2 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ( italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 2 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ) italic_u start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_i end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ( italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 2 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ) . 

 A repeated game consists of k 𝑘 k italic_k rounds in which the players play the same underlying normal form game.
The history at the j + 1 𝑗 1 j+1 italic_j + 1 ’th round consists of the actions (pure strategies) chosen by both players in each of the rounds 1 1 1 1 to j 𝑗 j italic_j .
We denote by H 𝐻 H italic_H the set of all possible such histories, so a strategy in a repeated game is a function a i : H → Δ ⁢ ( A ) : subscript 𝑎 𝑖 → 𝐻 Δ 𝐴 a_{i}:H\rightarrow\Delta(A) italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_i end_POSTSUBSCRIPT : italic_H → roman_Δ ( italic_A ) , i.e. a function that takes the history of actions chosen in the previous round and provides a distribution over the actions the agents would take in the next round.
In our tasks, a strategy in the repeated game is expressed as a piece of code that takes in the history (actions of both players in the previous rounds), and outputs an action for the next round (where the code may make some random choices, hence yielding a distribution over the selected next round actions).
Given an opponent strategy a 2 subscript 𝑎 2 a_{2} italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 2 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , the goal of our agent is to produce a strategy that best responds to the opponent and produces a the maximal payoff, i.e arg ⁡ max a 1 ⁡ u 1 ⁢ ( a 1 , a 2 ) subscript subscript 𝑎 1 subscript 𝑢 1 subscript 𝑎 1 subscript 𝑎 2 \arg\max_{a_{1}}u_{1}(a_{1},a_{2}) roman_arg roman_max start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT end_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_u start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ( italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 2 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ) .
Note that in this equation a 2 subscript 𝑎 2 a_{2} italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 2 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT is a given opponent strategy expressed as a piece of code that takes the history over the previous rounds and selects an action for the next round (possibly making some random choices), and that the goal of an agent is to produce a 1 subscript 𝑎 1 a_{1} italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT as a piece of code capturing the strategy of the first player.
The agent optimization goal is selecting the code a 1 subscript 𝑎 1 a_{1} italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT so as to maximize player 1’s expected payoff u 1 subscript 𝑢 1 u_{1} italic_u start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT against the fixed opponent a 2 subscript 𝑎 2 a_{2} italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 2 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT . 

 We consider the repeated version of prominent games, which we briefly discuss here: iterated Prisoner’s Dilemma  (Flood, 1958 ; Fudenberg and Tirole, 1991 ; Axelrod, 1980 ) , Battle of the Sexes  (Cooper et al., 1989 ; Luce and Raiffa, 2012 ) and Colonel Blotto  (Roberson, 2006 ) . As our goals was to highlight how our agent framework could be used to solve game theoretic tasks, rather than providing a rigorous evaluation and analysis of many game theoretic environments, we only included few games. However, additional games could easily be added in. 

 Prisonner’s Dilemma   (Axelrod, 1980 ) . In this game, two players each have two options: cooperate or defect. When both cooperate, they receive a moderate reward. If one defects while the other cooperates, the defector gets a high reward while the cooperator gets a low payoff. If both defect, they both receive a low payoff. Due to the structure of payoffs, although mutual cooperation yields the best collective outcome, individual incentives often push towards defection. We included a repeated game, consisting of k = 20 𝑘 20 k=20 italic_k = 20 rounds of the game. In the repeated version, players remember previous interactions and can adjust their strategies based on the history consisting of the past outcomes. Repeating the stage game multiple times allows for the development of trust and cooperation, as players recognize that consistent cooperation c