# FULL TEXT — Explorer: Scaling Exploration-driven Web Trajectory Synthesis for Multimodal Web Agents

https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.11357v4

Explorer: Scaling Exploration-driven Web Trajectory Synthesis for Multimodal Web Agents 

 1 Introduction 
 2 Related Work 
 
 3 Data Recipe 
 
 3.1 Website Selection 
 
 3.2 Data Generation Pipeline 
 
 Task Proposer. 
 Task Refiner. 
 Task Summarizer. 
 Task Verifier. 

 3.3 Dataset Analysis 

 4 Experiments 
 
 Multimodal-Mind2Web. 
 Mind2Web-Live. 
 MiniWob++. 

 5 Results 
 
 5.1 In-domain Evaluation 
 
 5.2 Mind2Web-Live Results 
 
 Improvement over base pre-trained models. 
 Improvement over higher capacity pre-trained models. 

 5.3 Multimodal-Mind2Web Results 
 5.4 MiniWob++ Results 
 5.5 Data Scaling Experiments 

 6 Analyses 
 
 Diversity Analysis. 
 Analysis of Verifier Accuracy. 
 Failure Modes of Trajectory Generation. 

 7 Conclusion 
 
 A Mind2Web Training and Evaluation Details 
 
 A.1 Mind2Web-Live 
 A.2 Multimodal-Mind2Web 
 A.3 Ablation Studies 
 A.4 Case Studies for Mind2Web-Live 

 B Cost Analysis 
 C Task Complexity Analysis 
 D System Prompts 
 E Trajectory Examples 
 
 F More Related Work 
 
 F.1 LLM-based Web Agents 
 F.2 Web Agent Benchmarks and Datasets 

 Explorer: Scaling Exploration-driven Web Trajectory Synthesis for Multimodal Web Agents 

Vardaan Pahuja 1 ∗† , Yadong Lu 2 1 1 1 Equal Contribution. † † \dagger † Work partly done during internship at Microsoft Research. ¶ ¶ \P ¶ Project Lead. ¶ , Corby Rosset 2 , Boyu Gou 1 , 
 Arindam Mitra 2 , Spencer Whitehead 2 , Yu Su 1 , Ahmed Awadallah 2 
 1 The Ohio State University   2 Microsoft Research, Redmond 
 pahuja.9@osu.edu, yadonglu@microsoft.com 

 Abstract 
 Recent success in large multimodal models (LMMs) has sparked promising applications of agents capable of autonomously completing complex web tasks.
While open-source LMM agents have made significant advances in offline evaluation benchmarks, their performance still falls substantially short of human-level capabilities in more realistic online settings.
A key bottleneck is the lack of diverse and large-scale trajectory-level datasets across various domains, which are expensive to collect.
In this paper, we address this challenge by developing a scalable recipe to synthesize the largest and most diverse trajectory-level dataset to date, containing over 94 94 94 94 K successful multimodal web trajectories, spanning 49 49 49 49 K unique URLs, 720 720 720 720 K screenshots, and 33 33 33 33 M web elements.
In particular, we leverage extensive web exploration and refinement to obtain diverse task intents.
The average cost is 28 28 28 28 cents per successful trajectory, making it affordable to a wide range of users in the community.
Leveraging this dataset, we train Explorer , a multimodal web agent, and demonstrate strong performance on both offline and online web agent benchmarks such as Mind2Web-Live, Multimodal-Mind2Web, and MiniWob++.
Additionally, our experiments highlight data scaling as a key driver for improving web agent capabilities.
We hope this study makes state-of-the-art LMM-based agent research at a larger scale more accessible. 1 1 1 Project website: https://osu-nlp-group.github.io/Explorer/ 

 Explorer: Scaling Exploration-driven Web Trajectory Synthesis for Multimodal Web Agents 

Vardaan Pahuja 1 ∗† , Yadong Lu 2 1 1 1 Equal Contribution. † † \dagger † Work partly done during internship at Microsoft Research. ¶ ¶ \P ¶ Project Lead. ¶ , Corby Rosset 2 , Boyu Gou 1 , 
 
 Arindam Mitra 2 , Spencer Whitehead 2 , Yu Su 1 , Ahmed Awadallah 2 
 
 1 The Ohio State University   2 Microsoft Research, Redmond 
 
 pahuja.9@osu.edu, yadonglu@microsoft.com 

 1 Introduction 
 
 Graphical User Interfaces (GUIs) serve as the primary medium for user interaction across digital environments.
Within the GUI environment, LLM-based agents Su et al. ( 2024 ) have shown great potential in automating complex workflows for human users.
These agents are designed to operate across diverse interfaces, including the web Deng et al. ( 2023 ); Zhou et al. ( 2024 ); Zheng et al. ( 2024 , 2025 ) , desktop Xie et al. ( 2024 ); Wu et al. ( 2024 ) , and mobile platforms Rawles et al. ( 2023 ); Yan et al. ( 2023 ) .
Navigating modern GUI interfaces, which integrate textual, graphical, and interactive components, typically requires agents to possess visual grounding, long-term planning, and memory management capabilities. 

 Recent work Cheng et al. ( 2024 ); Gou et al. ( 2025 ) has demonstrated the effectiveness of synthetic data for enhancing visual grounding Gou et al. ( 2025 ); Chen et al. ( 2024a ); Kapoor et al. ( 2024 ); Chen et al. ( 2024b ) and planning Xu et al. ( 2025b ); Zhang et al. ( 2024 ) .
Developing end-to-end GUI agents with long-term planning and grounding capabilities requires training on multi-step trajectory data Xu et al. ( 2025a , b ); Qin et al. ( 2025 ) .
However, existing trajectory datasets are primarily human-annotated Deng et al. ( 2023 ); Li et al. ( 2024 ); Lu et al. ( 2024 ) or leverage synthetic data just for task proposal curation Lai et al. ( 2024 ); Chen et al. ( 2024a ) .
And human annotation is expensive to scale for collecting large and diverse training datasets.
Therefore, synthetic data has emerged as a promising alternative to human-annotated data  Hartvigsen et al. ( 2022 ); Sahu et al. ( 2022 ); Ye et al. ( 2022 ); Tang et al. ( 2023 ); Mukherjee et al. ( 2023 ); Mitra et al. ( 2024 ) .
Collecting trajectory-level datasets presents unique challenges:
1) curating a diverse set of task intents at scale,
2) deploying an agent capable of interacting with a real-world environment to complete these tasks through a series of actions, and
3) verifying whether the task is accomplished by the executed action sequence.

 Figure 1: Data Generation Pipeline.
The task proposer agent generates an abstract task proposal and the first action based on the website homepage.
The task is then iteratively refined in subsequent steps by the refiner agent.
Finally, the task summarizer agent constructs an overall task description from the action sequence, followed by task verification to assess correctness.

 Data diversity is essential for equipping generalist web agents with a broad range of skills.
Existing work on synthetic web trajectory generation employs self-instruct for task proposal generation He et al. ( 2024b ) .
It formulates task proposals from homepages or parametric LLM knowledge, overlooking the richer content available in deeper web pages, which is essential for achieving broader task diversity.
Another line of work leverages web tutorials as a form of supervision for generating web trajectories Ou et al. ( 2024 ); Xu et al. ( 2025a ) .
While web tutorials effectively cover common daily user tasks, the resulting trajectory data exhibits limited domain diversity in terms of website and domain coverage (Table  1 ).
Additionally, information-seeking tasks remain underrepresented.
Due to these limitations, web agents trained on existing synthetic trajectory datasets have not seen much success in more realistic online evaluation settings.
To enhance web agents’ performance in real-world settings, it is essential to incorporate greater diversity in their training trajectories. 

 # Trajectories 
 # Websites 
 
 Modality 

 RUSS Xu et al. ( 2021 ) 
 
 80 80 80 80 
 22 22 22 22 
 HTML 

 Mind2Web Deng et al. ( 2023 ) 
 
 2350 2350 2350 2350 
 137 137 137 137 
 HTML + Screenshot 

 WebLINX Lu et al. ( 2024 ) 
 
 2337 2337 2337 2337 
 155 155 155 155 
 HTML + Screenshot 

 GUIAct Chen et al. ( 2024a ) 
 
 5696 5696 5696 5696 
 121 121 121 121 
 Screenshot 

 OpenWebVoyager He et al. ( 2024b ) 
 
 1165 1165 1165 1165 
 48 48 48 48 
 A11y tree + Screenshot 

 NNetnav Murty et al. ( 2024 ) 

 6 6 6 6 K 
 4 4 4 4 
 A11y tree + Screenshot 

 AgentTrek Xu et al. ( 2025a ) 

 10.4 10.4 10.4 10.4 K 
 127 127 127 127 
 A11y tree + HTML + Screenshot 

 Explorer 
 
 94 94 94 94 K 

 49 49 49 49 K 
 
 A11y tree + Screenshot (raw + SoM) + HTML 

 Table 1: Comparison to existing web agent benchmarks.

 In this work, we develop a scalable and diverse web trajectory data synthesis recipe for training GUI agent models.
Inspired by how humans learn to use the internet, we leverage exploration as a key mechanism for achieving diversity in task intents .
We introduce Explorer ,
a framework for systematic web exploration to generate diverse, high-quality trajectory datasets.
Unlike prior work that relies on static task proposals, Explorer dynamically explores web environments to curate diverse, real-world tasks.
This exploration-based approach ensures broader task coverage and better generalization to real-world scenarios.
We instantiate this framework using popular URLs from several sources, such as Tranco Pochat et al. ( 2019 ) and similarweb.com as seeds.
Our dataset comprises 94 94 94 94 K diverse web trajectories spanning 49 49 49 49 K unique URLs, making it the largest web trajectory dataset to date.
Each trajectory is richly annotated with artifacts such as screenshots, raw and set-of-mark Yang et al. ( 2023 ) annotated versions, HTML, and the accessibility tree, enabling comprehensive web agent training.
To construct this dataset, we develop a multi-agent pipeline that starts with an abstract task proposal and iteratively refines it into a more specific task through web exploration (Figure  1 ).
Unlike previous approaches, our pipeline generates tasks better grounded in real-world websites, improving task relevance and diversity.
To demonstrate the effectiveness of our dataset, we train small language models using just the synthetic data and outperform existing web agent baselines by a significant margin.
The main contributions of this work are as follows:

 • 
 
 We develop a scalable and easily customizable multi-agent pipeline for web agent trajectory synthesis. This pipeline leverages exploration as a core mechanism to generate diverse trajectory data, ensuring broad domain coverage and skill diversity in the resulting dataset. 

 • 
 
 We leverage this pipeline to generate a diverse and high-quality GUI trajectory dataset consisting of 94 94 94 94 K trajectories , spanning 49 49 49 49 K unique URLs with 720 720 720 720 K screenshots and 33 33 33 33 M web elements, making it the largest web trajectory dataset of this scale. 

 • 
 
 We demonstrate the effectiveness of our dataset by training small language models, which achieve strong performance on both online and offline benchmarks, significantly surpassing existing web agent baselines, including those with larger parameter counts. 

 2 Related Work 

 Information 

 View the detailed 7-day weather forecast for Toronto, ON on The Weather Network website. 

 Convert 100 US Dollars to Euros using the XE currency converter. 

 Find directions from Seattle, WA to Bellevue, WA using Bing Maps. 

 Service 

 Research the French Bulldog breed on the American Kennel Club website, including its popularity and family life traits. 

 Find the nearest Penske truck rental location in Anaheim, California, and start the reservation process for a truck. 

 Explore and purchase a subscription for the UpToDate Pro Suite on the Wolters Kluwer website. 

 Entertainment 

 Find the Basscon presents: Darren Styles EDM event on Eventbrite, save it, and share it on Twitter. 

 View the details of the Photography Competition Winners - Season X and share the article on Twitter. 

 Shopping 

 Browse through the fall home decor section on the Target website to explore a variety of fall-themed home decor items. 

 Purchase a three-seat fabric sofa, specifically the UPPLAND Sofa, from IKEA’s website. 

 Travel 

 Search for flights from Seattle to New York, select travel dates, and explore various flight options. 

 Find the weight of baggage allowance for economy class on qatarairways. 

 Table 2: Example task descriptions from Explorer. 

 Recent advances in multimodal language models have facilitated the development of web agents — autonomous systems designed to interact with real-world websites to perform everyday tasks Deng et al. ( 2023 ); Hong et al. ( 2024 ); Cheng et al. ( 2024 ); Zheng et al. ( 2024 , 2025 ); Xue et al. ( 2025 ) .
Early efforts to acquire trajectory data for training web agents primarily relied on crowd-sourcing Deng et al. ( 2023 ); Lu et al. ( 2024 ) .
However, due to the high cost of human annotation, recent work has adopted synthetic data generation for large-scale collection.
AutoWebGLM Lai et al. ( 2024 ) and GUIAct Chen et al. ( 2024a ) utilize LLMs to generate task proposals, which human experts subsequently annotate.
OpenWebVoyager He et al. ( 2024b ) employs a web agent to execute auto-generated task descriptions.
However, since these task descriptions are generated using LLMs without exploring a website, they fail to capture the full diversity of possible tasks on that website.
Another line of work, including Synatra Ou et al. ( 2024 ) and AgentTrek Xu et al. ( 2025a ) , leverages web tutorials to guide web trajectory generation.
Meanwhile, concurrent effort Murty et al. ( 2024 ) employs an exploration-based trajectory generation in WebArena’s sandbox, while our work focuses on more realistic web agent evaluation on live websites.
To address diversity limitations in prior trajectory synthesis work, we design a bottom-up web trajectory synthesis pipeline that explores websites dynamically while maintaining a coherent high-level task intent.
We refer readers to Appendix  F for further discussion. 

 3 Data Recipe 

 Metric 
 Value 

 # Total trajectories 
 
 175 175 175 175 K 

 # Success trajectories 
 
 94 94 94 94 K 

 # Unique URLs 
 
 49 49 49 49 K 

 Average steps per trajectory 
 7.7 7.7 7.7 7.7 

 Average elements per image 
 46.3 46.3 46.3 46.3 

 # Tokens 
 
 830 830 830 830 M 

 # Elements 
 
 33.3 33.3 33.3 33.3 M 

 # Images 
 
 720 720 720 720 K 

 Cost per trajectory 
 $ 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.15 

 Cost per successful trajectory 
 $ 0.28 0.28 0.28 0.28 

 Table 3: Dataset statistics for Explorer. The number of unique URLs, average steps per trajectory, average elements per image, and number of tokens, elements, and images correspond to the successful trajectories.

 We design an automatic web trajectory synthesis pipeline that explores websites to generate diverse web trajectories.
It utilizes Playwright 2 2 2 https://playwright.dev/ to execute actions and collect metadata from real-world websites, starting from an initial URL. 3 3 3 For a 4 4 4 4 K subset of trajectories, we instruct GPT-4o to navigate to the target website by formulating a Google search query based on the task description. 
The metadata includes screenshots, HTML, A11y tree, and actions in grounded and natural language forms. 

 3.1 Website Selection 
 
 We use a combination of URL sources to generate the synthetic web trajectories.
We obtain the top 100 100 100 100 URLs from similarweb.com corresponding to the high-traffic portion of the web with transactional tasks like booking flights, restaurant reservations, government services, sports, entertainment, etc.
The Tranco Pochat et al. ( 2019 ) URLs include 49 49 49 49 K URLs representing the head portion of the web, which is less trafficked but popular nonetheless.
We filter out harmful websites containing violent or explicit content to ensure safety compliance.
Overall, we generate 94 94 94 94 K trajectories across both sources.
The complete data generation takes 50 50 50 50 hours, utilizing 60 60 60 60 parallel processes.
The viewport resolution is up to 1980 × 1080 1980 1080 1980\times 1080 1980 × 1080 . 

 3.2 Data Generation Pipeline 
 
 We aim to develop a generalized pipeline for web exploration to collect diverse web trajectory data.
To enhance diversity, we adopt a bottom-up approach, starting with low-level actions and progressively shaping them into high-level task descriptions while maintaining a coherent task intent.
In the first step, the proposer agent generates an abstract task, which is refined to a more specific task through a refinement process (Figure  1 ).
Since the agents execute actions alongside the refinement process, the generated tasks respect real-world constraints, such as product availability, available color options, and other specifications, ensuring practical applicability.
Our pipeline consists of the following LLM-powered agents 4 4 4 We use GPT-4o as the agent backbone throughout the data generation process. : 

 Task Proposer. 
 
 Given a website homepage, including its screenshot and accessibility tree, the task proposer agent generates diverse initial tasks that could be performed on that website.
The task descriptions at this stage are instructed to be high-level and abstract versions of the real-world tasks, which will be refined into more specific tasks in later stages.
Along with generating the task proposal, the agent proposes and executes the first action toward completing that task.
Furthermore, the agent is instructed to halt upon encountering robot detection such as CAPTCHA verification, login prompts, or payment requests.

 Task Refiner. 
 
 The task refiner agent receives the initial task proposal or the refined task description from the previous step, along with the corresponding action history as input.
It then predicts the next action consistent with the input task description and the updated, refined task description
while incorporating the complete action history.
By iteratively refining the task description after each action, the agent ensures that the updated task remains aligned with the action history.

 Figure 2: Data composition for Explorer.
Its extensive diversity showcases its potential to train end-to-end generalist web agents. 

 Task Summarizer. 
 
 This module processes the entire action and screenshot history to predict an overall task description that aligns with the trajectory.
The task summary is expected to be high level, i.e. , it should describe what the task entails while omitting how it is accomplished. 

 Task Verifier. 
 
 Inspired by Pan et al. ( 2024a ) , the task verifier agent receives the task description and action history, serving as a critic to evaluate whether the trajectory successfully completes the specified task.
In addition to the screenshots of the trajectory, it also receives a markdown representation of the last page.
This ensures the verifier has the full context of the website’s final state, even when the viewport cannot capture all the content.
To ensure data quality, trajectories that are incoherent or misaligned with the high-level intent are discarded during this stage.
Such automatic evaluation of web trajectories has been widely adopted in prior work Xu et al. ( 2025a ); He et al. ( 2024a ); Koh et al. ( 2024 ) .
Figure  1 illustrates the above pipeline.
The prompts for the above agents are given in Appendix  D . 

 3.3 Dataset Analysis 
 
 Explorer comprises web trajectories spanning diverse domains, including services, entertainment, shopping, travel, and information, ensuring broad task diversity.
Sample tasks from Explorer are presented in Table  2 .
Figure  2 visualizes the domain and subdomain distribution, highlighting the dataset’s rich diversity.
To the best of our knowledge, Explorer with 94 94 94 94 K trajectories is the largest web trajectory dataset of this scale.
Table  1 shows a comparison with existing web agent datasets from the literature.
The detailed statistics are given in Table  3 .
Beyond diversity, Explorer is also highly scalable and cost-efficient.
Our approach achieves a cost of $ 0.28 0.28 0.28 0.28 per successful trajectory, making it approximately 2 × 2\times 2 × more cost-effective than AgentTrek Xu et al. ( 2025a ) (which incurs $ 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55 per trajectory) and significantly cheaper than human annotation (Table  4 ).
Unlike human annotation, which requires training crowd workers and continuous quality monitoring, Explorer’s automated generation pipeline eliminates these bottlenecks, ensuring scalability with minimal overhead.
By combining diversity, scalability, and cost efficiency, Explorer sets a new benchmark for generating large-scale web trajectory datasets, making it an invaluable resource for training generalist GUI agents. 

 Model 
 Cost per trajectory 

 Mind2Web Deng et al. ( 2023 ) 
 
 $ 0.85 0.85 0.85 0.85 

 AgentTrek Xu et al. ( 2025a ) 
 
 $ 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55 

 Explorer 
 $ 0.28 0.28 0.28 0.28 

 Table 4: Cost comparison with other approaches. 

 4 Experiments 

 Model 
 Avg.  Step SR (%) 
 Completion Rate (%) 

 Task SR (1) (%) 

 Full Task SR (%) 

 API-based Models 

 GPT-4o 
 58.5 58.5 58.5 58.5 
 52.8 52.8 52.8 52.8 
 44.6 44.6 44.6 44.6 
 25.3 25.3 25.3 25.3 

 GPT-3.5 
 – 
 36.5 36.5 36.5 36.5 
 – 
 15.4 15.4 15.4 15.4 

 Open-source Instructed Models 

 Mistral-7B-Instr. Jiang et al. ( 2023 ) 
 
 32.8 32.8 32.8 32.8 
 29.5 29.5 29.5 29.5 
 24.1 24.1 24.1 24.1 
 9.6 9.6 9.6 9.6 

 Qwen2-72B-Instr. Bai et al. ( 2023 ) 
 
 – 
 40.9 40.9 40.9 40.9 
 – 
 15.4 15.4 15.4 15.4 

 Qwen2-VL-7B Wang et al. ( 2024a ) 
 
 40.2 40.2 40.2 40.2 
 35.4 35.4 35.4 35.4 
 34.9 34.9 34.9 34.9 
 14.5 14.5 14.5 14.5 

 Phi-3.5V Abdin et al. ( 2024 ) 
 
 28.5 28.5 28.5 28.5 
 23.5 23.5 23.5 23.5 
 20.5 20.5 20.5 20.5 
 2.4 2.4 2.4 2.4 

 Supervised Fine-Tuning 

 Explorer-4B 
 44.0 44.0 44.0 44.0 
 39.4 39.4 39.4 39.4 
 31.3 31.3 31.3 31.3 
 18.1 18.1 18.1 18.1 

 Explorer-7B 
 45.3 45.3 45.3 45.3 
 40.2 40.2 40.2 40.2 
 34.9 34.9 34.9 34.9 
 19.3 19.3 19.3 19.3 

 Table 5: Results on Mind2Web-Live benchmark.
Missing values are denoted by –.
The results for GPT-4 and Mistral-7B-Instruct have been reproduced on our Linux servers.
The results for GPT-3.5 and Qwen2-72B-Instruct have been taken from Pan et al. ( 2024b ) .
The full task success rate represents the successful completion of all key nodes for a given task.
The average step success rate represents the proportion of completed key nodes, macro-averaged across tasks.
The completion rate represents the proportion of completed key nodes, micro-averaged across tasks.
Task SR (1) represents task SR with a tolerance of up to one error/key node.

 We use the synthetic trajectories generated by our pipeline to train small multimodal language models (SLMs) for web agent tasks.
To ensure computational efficiency, we select 40 40 40 40 K trajectories from the full set for training.
We further refine this subset by filtering out trajectories that contain more than two scroll actions to mitigate potential model bias toward excessive scrolling behavior.
Finally, we use ~ 30 30 30 30 K trajectories obtained after filtering to fine-tune multimodal language models like Phi-3.5V Abdin et al. ( 2024 ) and Qwen2-VL-7B Wang et al. ( 2024a ) .
For brevity, we denote the models trained on Phi-3.5V and Qwen2-VL-7B as Explorer-4B and Explorer-7B, respectively.
To test the effectiveness of our data for web-based agentic tasks, we evaluate Explorer-4B and Explorer-7B
on Mind2Web-Live Pan et al. ( 2024b ) , Multimodal-Mind2Web Deng et al. ( 2023 ); Zheng et al. ( 2024 ) , and MiniWob++ Liu et al. ( 2018 ) . 

 Multimodal-Mind2Web. 
 
 Multimodal-Mind2Web is an offline web agent benchmark comprising 2 2 2 2 K open-ended tasks spanning 137 137 137 137 websites across 31 31 31 31 domains.
Each task comprises a sequence of actions with screenshots, action type, and HTML.
We follow the setting in Zheng et al. ( 2024 ) 
and report element accuracy, operation F1, and step success rate (SR) as evaluation metrics. 

 Mind2Web-Live. 
 
 Mind2Web-Live is a benchmark modified
from Mind2Web to test
web agents on live websites rather than static trajectories.
The benchmark evaluates performance using a key-node-based evaluation approach rather than using a golden action sequence, requiring valid trajectories to reach annotated “key nodes” across 104 104 104 104 test tasks in Mind2Web.
Since Mind2Web-Live relies on real-world dynamic websites, it encounters robot detection such as reCAPTCHA, which hinders testing Xu et al. ( 2025b ) .
To address this, we select a subset of 83 83 83 83 test set tasks that remain consistently accessible throughout our tests.
Following Pan et al. ( 2024b ) , we report the average step success rate, completion rate, and full task success rate on the test set. 

 MiniWob++. 
 
 This benchmark consists of low-level tasks on a single webpage.
Typical examples include clicking a sequence of buttons, selecting items from a drop-down list, and filling out a form.
We use the subset of 46 46 46 46 tasks used for evaluation in prior work Zeng et al. ( 2024 ); Ou et al. ( 2024 ) .
The final score is obtained by averaging the results of four runs per task.
We use the zero-shot evaluation setting, which does not use any environment-specific trajectories for training. 

 Model 
 Train Data 
 Cross-Task 
 Cross-Website 
 Cross-Domain 
 Avg. 

 Ele. Acc 
 Op. F1 
 Step SR 
 Ele. Acc 
 Op. F1 
 Step SR 
 Ele. Acc 
 Op. F1 
 Step SR 

 In-Context Learning 

 GPT-3.5 
 
 19.4 19.4 19.4 19.4 
 59.2 59.2 59.2 59.2 
 16.8 16.8 16.8 16.8 
 14.9 14.9 14.9 14.9 
 56.5 56.5 56.5 56.5 
 14.1 14.1 14.1 14.1 
 25.2 25.2 25.2 25.2 
 57.9 57.9 57.9 57.9 
 24.1 24.1 24.1 24.1 
 18.3 18.3 18.3 18.3 

 GPT-4 
 
 40.8 40.8 40.8 40.8 
 63.1 63.1 63.1 63.1 
 32.3 32.3 32.3 32.3 
 30.2 30.2 30.2 30.2 
 61.0 61.0 61.0 61.0 
 27.0 27.0 27.0 27.0 
 35.4 35.4 35.4 35.4 
 61.9 61.9 61.9 61.9 
 29.7 29.7 29.7 29.7 
 29.7 29.7 29.7 29.7 

 SeeAct Zheng et al. ( 2024 ) 

 46.4 46.4 46.4 46.4 
 73.4 73.4 73.4 73.4 
 40.2 40.2 40.2 40.2 
 38 38 38 38 
 67.8 67.8 67.8 67.8 
 32.4 32.4 32.4 32.4 
 42.4 42.4 42.4 42.4 
 69.3 69.3 69.3 69.3 
 36.8 36.8 36.8 36.8 
 36.5 36.5 36.5 36.5 

 Supervised Fine-Tuning 

 SeeClick-9.6B Cheng et al. ( 2024 ) 
 
 Syn. + M2W 
 26.3 26.3 26.3 26.3 
 86.2 86.2 86.2 86.2 
 23.7 23.7 23.7 23.7 
 21.9 21.9 21.9 21.9 
 82.9 82.9 82.9 82.9 
 18.8 18.8 18.8 18.8 
 22.1 22.1 22.1 22.1 
 84.1 84.1 84.1 84.1 
 20.2 20.2 20.2 20.2 
 20.9 20.9 20.9 20.9 

 EDGE-9.6B Chen et al. ( 2024b ) 
 
 Syn. + M2W 
 – 
 – 
 30.0 30.0 30.0 30.0 
 – 
 – 
 21.1 21.1 21.1 21.1 
 – 
 – 
 22.4 22.4 22.4 22.4 
 24.5 24.5 24.5 24.5 

 MiniCPM-3.1B Chen et al. ( 2024a ) 
 
 Syn. + M2W 
 23.8 23.8 23.8 23.8 
 86.8 86.8 86.8 86.8 
 20.8 20.8 20.8 20.8 
 20.3 20.3 20.3 20.3 
 81.7 81.7 81.7 81.7 
 17.3 17.3 17.3 17.3 
 17.9 17.9 17.9 17.9 
 74.5 74.5 74.5 74.5 
 14.6 14.6 14.6 14.6 
 17.6 17.6 17.6 17.6 

 ScribeAgent-32B Shen et al. ( 2024 ) 
 
 Syn. traj. 
 38.0 38.0 38.0 38.0 
 52.9 52.9 52.9 52.9 
 35.6 35.6 35.6 35.6 
 34.1 34.1 34.1 34.1 
 52.7 52.7 52.7 52.7 
 32.5 32.5 32.5 32.5 
 39.4 39.4 39.4 39.4 
 54.7 54.7 54.7 54.7 
 37.3 37.3 37.3 37.3 
 35.1 35.1 35.1 35.1 

 AgentTrek-7B Xu et al. ( 2025a ) 
 
 Syn. + M2W 
 60.8 60.8 60.8 60.8 
 88.9 88.9 88.9 88.9 
 55.7 55.7 55.7 55.7 
 57.6 57.6 57.6 57.6 
 88.1 88.1 88.1 88.1 
 51.4 51.4 51.4 51.4 
 56.0 56.0 56.0 56.0 
 87.5 87.5 87.5 87.5 
 52.6 52.6 52.6 52.6 
 53.2 53.2 53.2 53.2 

 Explorer-4B 
 Syn. traj. 
 36.5 36.5 36.5 36.5 
 82.9 82.9 82.9 82.9 
 33.2 33.2 33.2 33.2 
 44.1 44.1 44.1 44.1 
 87.7 87.7 87.7 87.7 
 39.3 39.3 39.3 39.3 
 42.5 42.5 42.5 42.5 
 86.3 86.3 86.3 86.3 
 39.8 39.8 39.8 39.8 
 37.4 37.4 37.4 37.4 

 Explorer-4B 
 M2W 
 48.1 48.1 48.1 48.1 
 88.0 88.0 88.0 88.0 
 44.8 44.8 44.8 44.8 
 49.1 49.1 49.1 49.1 
 87.2 87.2 87.2 87.2 
 45.0 45.0 45.0 45.0 
 46.9 46.9 46.9 46.9 
 87.7 87.7 87.7 87.7 
 44.6 44.6 44.6 44.6 
 44.8 44.8 44.8 44.8 

 Explorer-4B 
 Syn. + M2W 
 53.4 53.4 53.4 53.4 
 88.1 88.1 88.1 88.1 
 50.7 50.7 50.7 50.7 
 55.6 55.6 55.6 55.6 
 89.5 89.5 89.5 89.5 
 51.4 51.4 51.4 51.4 
 49.8 49.8 49.8 49.8 
 88.8 88.8 88.8 88.8 
 47.2 47.2 47.2 47.2 
 49.8 49.8 49.8 49.8 

 Explorer-7B 
 Syn. traj. 
 43.6 43.6 43.6 43.6 
 86.6 86.6 86.6 86.6 
 39.6 39.6 39.6 39.6 
 48.7 48.7 48.7 48.7 
 87.7 87.7 87.7 87.7 
 44.5 44.5 44.5 44.5 
 47.6 47.6 47.6 47.6 
 87.2 87.2 87.2 87.2 
 44.7 44.7 44.7 44.7 
 43.0 43.0 43.0 43.0 

 Explorer-7B 
 M2W 
 51.8 51.8 51.8 51.8 
 88.0 88.0 88.0 88.0 
 48.3 48.3 48.3 48.3 
 56.3 56.3 56.3 56.3 
 89.7 89.7 89.7 89.7 
 52.0 52.0 52.0 52.0 
 50.9 50.9 50.9 50.9 
 88.9 88.9 88.9 88.9 
 48.1 48.1 48.1 48.1 
 49.5 49.5 49.5 49.5 

 Explorer-7B 
 Syn. + M2W 
 56.5 56.5 56.5 56.5 
 90.3 90.3 90.3 90.3 
 53.2 53.2 53.2 53.2 
 60.5 60.5 60.5 60.5 
 90.7 90.7 90.7 90.7 
 56.7 56.7 56.7 56.7 
 55.7 55.7 55.7 55.7 
 90.4 90.4 90.4 90.4 
 53.0 53.0 53.0 53.0 
 54.3 54.3 54.3 54.3 

 Table 6: Multimodal-Mind2Web evaluation results. The baseline numbers have been taken from Zheng et al. ( 2024 ); Cheng et al. ( 2024 ); Chen et al. ( 2024b , a ); Shen et al. ( 2024 ) . The last column denotes the average step success rates over the three test splits. Explorer significantly outperforms existing GUI agent baselines.

 5 Results 

 5.1 In-domain Evaluation 
 
 As an intrinsic evaluation of the trajectory collection pipeline, we generate 100 100 100 100 test tasks using Explorer, disjoint from the train set.
The SLM agents are tasked with executing the given tasks on live websites while an LLM-as-a-judge verifier (§  3.2 ) evaluates the correctness of their actions at the trajectory level.
Table  7 shows the results.
We observe that the fine-tuned agents significantly outperform their pre-trained counterparts.
Thus, using in-domain web trajectory data training helps, which is a valuable sanity check. 

 5.2 Mind2Web-Live Results 
 
 We evaluate Explorer-4B and Explorer-7B trained on the synthetic trajectory dataset (Table  5 ).
We make the following observations from the results:

 Improvement over base pre-trained models. 
 
 We observe that Explorer-7B yields improvements of 5.1 5.1 5.1 5.1 % and 4.8 4.8 4.8 4.8 % in average step success rate (SR) and key node completion rate, respectively, compared to the pre-trained Qwen2-VL-7B model.
Similarly, Explorer-4B obtains gains of 15.5 15.5 15.5 15.5 % and 15.9 15.9 15.9 15.9 % in average step SR and key node completion rate, respectively, over its pre-trained counterpart.
In terms of full task success rate, Phi-3.5V improves significantly from 2.4 2.4 2.4 2.4 % to 18.1 18.1 18.1 18.1 %, while Qwen2-VL-7B improves from 14.5 14.5 14.5 14.5 % to 19.3 19.3 19.3 19.3 %.
To the best of our knowledge, this represents the state-of-the-art performance on Mind2Web-Live for models of this size trained exclusively on synthetic data.

 Model 
 Full Task SR (%) 

 GPT-4o 
 16.0 16.0 16.0 16.0 

 Phi-3.5V 
 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 

 Explorer-4B 
 17.0 17.0 17.0 17.0 

 Qwen2-VL-7B 
 6.0 6.0 6.0 6.0 

 Explorer-7B 
 18.0 18.0 18.0 18.0 

 Table 7: In-domain evaluation results. The fine-tuned Explorer models achieve significant improvements over their pre-trained counterparts and surpass closed-source LLMs, including GPT-4o. 

 Improvement over higher capacity pre-trained models. 
 
 Despite having much fewer parameters, we observe that Explorer-4B outperforms strong baselines such as Mistral-7B-Instruct-0.3 and Qwen2-72B-Instruct in full task SR by margins of 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 % and 2.7 2.7 2.7 2.7 %, respectively.
The Phi-3.5V model obtains an 18.1 18.1 18.1 18.1 % full task success rate, which is better than GPT-3.5 ( 15.4 15.4 15.4 15.4 %), despite using orders of magnitude fewer parameters.
The corresponding results for the entire set of 104 104 104 104 tasks, including unreachable websites, are given in Appendix  A.1 .
We provide the ablation studies in Appendix  A.3 and the error analysis in Appendix  A.4 . 

 Figure 3: Experiments with data scaling using Explorer-4B on Mind2Web-Live. We experiment with using 100 % percent 100 100\% 100 % , 50 % percent 50 50\% 50 % , and 25 % percent 25 25\% 25 % of the trajectory data. All results are averaged over three runs. All metrics exhibit improvement with an increase in data scale.

 5.3 Multimodal-Mind2Web Results 
 
 Following Deng et al. ( 2023 ) , we obtain the top- 50 50 50 50 elements from a pre-trained DeBERTa He et al. ( 2021 ) candidate generation model, which are then used to construct the accessibility tree and SoM image inputs.
The results are shown in Table  6 . 

 Among baselines, we include API-based models for in-context learning – GPT-3.5, GPT-4, and SeeAct Zheng et al. ( 2024 ) .
SeeAct is a web agent that performs web tasks using a two-step procedure of action generation and grounding using GPT-4V.
Additionally, we include baselines that fine-tune small language models using synthetic data, followed by further fine-tuning on the Mind2Web training set.
SeeClick Cheng et al. ( 2024 ) introduces a visual grounding model (Qwen-VL) trained on synthetically-generated grounding data.
EDGE Chen et al. ( 2024b ) synthesizes QA data on webpages to improve the grounded GUI understanding capabilities of MLLMs.
ScribeAgent-Large Shen et al. ( 2024 ) and MiniCPM-GUI Chen et al. ( 2024a ) use human-annotated trajectory data to train web agents.
AgentTrek Xu et al. ( 2025a ) is a GUI agent baseline that also utilizes synthetic trajectory data to fine-tune SLMs for Mind2Web, similar to our setting.
It synthesizes web trajectory data by guided replay from web tutorials.
We observe that Explorer-7B fine-tuned on synthetic data from Explorer plus Mind2Web outperforms all baselines in average step success rate.
Notably, it surpasses AgentTrek, which uses the same Qwen2-VL-7B MLLM backbone, highlighting the superior quality of our dataset.
The broad domain coverage and task diversity in Explorer contribute to its superior generalization across environments. 

 Model 
 Accuracy (%) 

 API-based Models 

 GPT-3.5 
 39.57 39.57 39.57 39.57 

 GPT-4 
 53.04 53.04 53.04 53.04 

 Open-source Instructed Models 

 Phi-3.5V 
 35.87 35.87 35.87 35.87 

 Qwen2-VL-7B 
 36.96 36.96 36.96 36.96 

 Llama3-chat-8B 
 31.74 31.74 31.74 31.74 

 Llama3-chat-70B 
 48.70 48.70 48.70 48.70 

 Open-source Interactive Data Finetuned Models 

 AgentLM-7B Zeng et al. ( 2024 ) 
 
 15.65 15.65 15.65 15.65 

 CodeActAgent-7B Wang et al. ( 2024b ) 
 
 9.78 9.78 9.78 9.78 

 AgentFlan-7B Chen et al. ( 2024c ) 
 
 20.87 20.87 20.87 20.87 

 Lemur-chat-70B Xu et al. ( 2024 ) 
 
 21.30 21.30 21.30 21.30 

 AgentLM-70B Zeng et al. ( 2024 ) 
 
 36.52 36.52 36.52 36.52 

 Synatra-CodeLlama-7B Ou et al. ( 2024 ) 
 
 38.20 38.20 38.20 38.20 

 AgentTrek-7B Xu et al. ( 2025a ) 
 
 45.28 45.28 45.28 45.28 

 Explorer-4B 
 46.74 46.74 46.74 46.74 

 Explorer-7B 
 53.26 53.26 53.26 53.26 

 Table 8: Results on MiniWob++ benchmark Liu et al. ( 2018 ) in zero-shot evaluation setting. The baseline numbers correspond to Ou et al. ( 2024 ) . Explorer outperforms much larger models by a significant margin. 

 Statistic 
 Count 

 # Unique task proposals 
 
 53 53 53 53 K 

 # Unique final task descriptions 
 
 81 81 81 81 K 

 # Final task descriptions 
 
 94 94 94 94 K 

 Table 9: Task diversity statistics at different stages of the data synthesis pipeline.
Abstract task proposals evolve into diverse, fine-grained task descriptions as the agent explores the environment. 

 5.4 MiniWob++ Results 
 
 Table  8 shows the results on the MiniWob++ benchmark in the zero-shot evaluation setting.
Among baselines, we have API-based models, in-context learning using open-source LMs, and agentic models like AgentLM Zeng et al. ( 2024 ) , CodeActAgent Wang et al. ( 2024b ) , Lemur-Chat Xu et al. ( 2024 ) and AgentFlan Chen et al. ( 2024c ) which include web-based demonstrations in their instruction tuning dataset.
Synatra-CodeLlama-7B Ou et al. ( 2024 ) and AgentTrek Xu et al. ( 2025a ) also synthesize web-agent trajectories automatically.
We observe that Explorer outperforms GPT-4 and general-purpose agent baselines.
Explorer-4B surpasses Synatra-CodeLlama-7B and AgentTrek-7B despite using a much smaller model with 4.2 4.2 4.2 4.2 B params, highlighting our synthetic data’s superior quality and strong potential for generalization to new web environments. 

 5.5 Data Scaling Experiments 
 
 We conduct experiments with different data scales for Explorer-4B to analyze the impact of training data size.
Specifically, we subsample the original trajectory dataset to utilize 50 50 50 50 % and 25 25 25 25 % of its original size.
Figure  3 presents the resulting performance curves.
Our results show that, even with just 25 25 25 25 % of the training data, the model exhibits rapid performance gains over the base pre-trained model.
Increasing the dataset size further leads to gradual improvements across all reported metrics.
However, the increase in the overall task success rate is more gradual compared to the stepwise metrics, as it is a more coarse-grained metric. 

 6 Analyses 
 
 Diversity Analysis. 
 
 We analyze the diversity of task descriptions across different stages of the data generation pipeline. At the initial proposal stage, the task proposer generates approximately 53 53 53 53 K unique high-level goals.
As the agent explores the web environment, these proposals evolve into a total of 94 94 94 94 K final task descriptions, of which 81 81 81 81 K are unique.
This progression shows that abstract task proposals can evolve into unique, fine-grained tasks with different constraints, shaped by the agent’s specific exploration path.
Moreover, multiple trajectories corresponding to the same task description expose the agent to alternative solution paths, enhancing generalization. 

 Analysis of Verifier Accuracy. 

 Pred = Success 
 Pred = Failure 

 GT = Success 
 0.39 0.39 0.39 0.39 
 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.05 

 GT = Failure 
 0.14 0.14 0.14 0.14 
 0.42 0.42 0.42 0.42 

 Table 10: Confusion matrix of the task verifier evaluated on a subset of 100 100 100 100 Explorer-generated trajectories. We observe 81 % percent 81 81\% 81 % agreement with human judgment. 

 We did a human evaluation of the task verifier on a random set of 100 100 100 100 trajectories generated using Explorer. We obtain 81 % percent 81 81\% 81 % agreement with human judgement for the task verifier, which is comparable to prior work Pan et al. ( 2024b ); Xu et al. ( 2025a ) . 

 Failure Modes of Trajectory Generation. 
 
 To better understand failure cases in our pipeline, we perform a qualitative analysis of trajectories that were marked as unsuccessful by human annotators (Figure  4 ).
The observed failure modes can be categorized as follows: 

 • 
 
 Grounding error during refinement : This error happens when the grounded action does not align with the natural language form of the agent’s action during the task refinement phase.
This misalignment propagates to the summarizer, resulting in an inaccurate final task description. 

 • 
 
 Unresponsive website : The grounded action is correct and aligns with the task objective, but the website interaction fails due to non-responsive web elements during execution or dynamic content changes. 

 • 
 
 Summarization hallucination :
The summarizer introduces extraneous constraints or goals to the task description that are not present in the underlying trajectory, causing misalignment. 

 • 
 
 Technical issues : The agent fails to complete the task due to external technical issues such as login requirements, media playback issues, or automated bot detection mechanisms. 

 • 
 
 Task incomplete : The agent reaches the step limit before completing all required actions, resulting in an incomplete trajectory. 

 Figure 4: Error type distribution in synthetic trajectory synthesis. Grounding errors in the refinement phase and summarization hallucinations are the most dominant error types. 

 7 Conclusion 
 
 In this work, we introduce Explorer, a scalable framework for synthesizing web trajectories on a large scale.
By leveraging thorough web exploration, Explorer ensures diversity in both domains and the skills acquired by web agents.
Unlike previous approaches, our framework generates contextually grounded trajectories that adapt to real-world constraints, improving both task relevance and generalization.
We instantiate this framework using URLs collected from diverse sources.
Explorer outperforms existing web agent baselines by a significant margin on both online and offline web agent benchmarks.
Furthermore, our results highlight the critical role of data scale in enhancing web agents’ performance.
Future work will focus on extending this framework to encompass a broader range of GUI environments, such as operating systems with diverse applications.
GUI agents require specialized skills for different tasks, including information-seeking, operational, and navigation skills.
Efficient exploration of the environment to acquire these skills presents another promising avenue for future research.

 Limitations 
 
 Explorer explores the web environment autonomously, which may occasionally result in incoherent tasks.
Synthetic data collection using closed-source LLMs can be costly due to associated API expenses.
While this work serves as a proof of concept, future research will focus on developing tailor-made open-source LLMs for this task.
Additionally, some website content remains inaccessible due to login requirements, leading to insufficient data for those websites.

 Ethical Considerations 
 
 The synthetic data collection pipeline proposed in this paper is intended solely for academic research on GUI agents, with strict ethical safeguards to prevent unauthorized website interactions.
To ensure ethical compliance and mitigate risks, we prompt our agents to automatically terminate upon encountering CAPTCHA verifications, login prompts, or payment requests, ensuring that no actual transactions or bookings occur.
Additionally, we filter out websites containing violent or explicit content and strictly adhere to privacy regulations, ensuring that no personal information is used during action execution.
To enforce responsible data collection, we monitor a subset of automatically generated trajectories to ensure compliance with website access policies.
Moreover, we distribute the workload across websites to prevent excessive requests and minimize the impact on any single domain. 

 Acknowledgements 
 
 We would like to thank colleagues from the OSU NLP group and Microsoft Research for their valuable feedback.
This research was supported in part by ARL W911NF2220144 and by computational resources provided by the Ohio Supercomputer Center Center ( 1987 ) . 

 References 

 Abdin et al. (2024) 
 
Marah Abdin, Sam Ade Jacobs, Ammar Ahmad Awan, Jyoti Aneja, Ahmed Awadallah, Hany Awadalla, Nguyen Bach, Amit Bahree, Arash Bakhtiari, Harkirat Behl, et al. 2024.

 Phi-3 technical report: A highly capable language model locally on your phone.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.14219 .

 Bai et al. (2023) 
 
Jinze Bai, Shuai Bai, Yunfei Chu, Zeyu Cui, Kai Dang, Xiaodong Deng, Yang Fan, Wenbin Ge, Yu Han, Fei Huang, Binyuan Hui, Luo Ji, Mei Li, Junyang Lin, Runji Lin, Dayiheng Liu, Gao Liu, Chengqiang Lu, Keming Lu, Jianxin Ma, Rui Men, Xingzhang Ren, Xuancheng Ren, Chuanqi Tan, Sinan Tan, Jianhong Tu, Peng Wang, Shijie Wang, Wei Wang, Shengguang Wu, Benfeng Xu, Jin Xu, An Yang, Hao Yang, Jian Yang, Shusheng Yang, Yang Yao, Bowen Yu, Hongyi Yuan, Zheng Yuan, Jianwei Zhang, Xingxuan Zhang, Yichang Zhang, Zhenru Zhang, Chang Zhou, Jingren Zhou, Xiaohuan Zhou, and Tianhang Zhu. 2023.

 Qwen technical report.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.16609 .

 Center (1987) 
 
Ohio Supercomputer Center. 1987.

 Ohio supercomputer center.

 Chen et al. (2024a) 
 
Wentong Chen, Junbo Cui, Jinyi Hu, Yujia Qin, Junjie Fang, Yue Zhao, Chongyi Wang, Jun Liu, Guirong Chen, Yupeng Huo, et al. 2024a.

 Guicourse: From general vision language models to versatile gui agents.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.11317 .

 Chen et al. (2024b) 
 
Xuetian Chen, Hangcheng Li, Jiaqing Liang, Sihang Jiang, and Deqing Yang. 2024b.

 Edge: Enhanced grounded gui understanding with enriched multi-granularity synthetic data.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.19461 .

 Chen et al. (2024c) 
 
Zehui Chen, Kuikun Liu, Qiuchen Wang, Wenwei Zhang, Jiangning Liu, Dahua Lin, Kai Chen, and Feng Zhao. 2024c.

 Agent-flan: Designing data and methods of effective agent tuning for large language models .

 In Findings of ACL .

 Cheng et al. (2024) 
 
Kanzhi Cheng, Qiushi Sun, Yougang Chu, Fangzhi Xu, Yantao Li, Jianbing Zhang, and Zhiyong Wu. 2024.

 Seeclick: Harnessing GUI grounding for advanced visual GUI agents .

 In Proceedings of ACL .

 Deng et al. (2023) 
 
Xiang Deng, Yu Gu, Boyuan Zheng, Shijie Chen, Samual Stevens, Boshi Wang, Huan Sun, and Yu Su. 2023.

 Mind2web: Towards a generalist agent for the web .

 In Proceedings of NeurIPS .

 Gou et al. (2025) 
 
Boyu Gou, Ruohan Wang, Boyuan Zheng, Yanan Xie, Cheng Chang, Yiheng Shu, Huan Sun, and Yu Su. 2025.

 Navigating the digital world as humans do: Universal visual grounding for GUI agents .

 In Proceedings of ICLR .

 Gur et al. (2024) 
 
Izzeddin Gur, Hiroki Furuta, Austin V. Huang, Mustafa Safdari, Yutaka Matsuo, Douglas Eck, and Aleksandra Faust. 2024.

 A real-world webagent with planning, long context understanding, and program synthesis .

 In Proceedings of ICLR .

 Hartvigsen et al. (2022) 
 
Thomas Hartvigsen, Saadia Gabriel, Hamid Palangi, Maarten Sap, Dipankar Ray, and Ece Kamar. 2022.

 Toxigen: A large-scale machine-generated dataset for adversarial and implicit hate speech detection .

 In Proceedings of ACL .

 He et al. (2024a) 
 
Hongliang He, Wenlin Yao, Kaixin Ma, Wenhao Yu, Yong Dai, Hongming Zhang, Zhenzhong Lan, and Dong Yu. 2024a.

 Webvoyager: Building an end-to-end web agent with large multimodal models .

 In Proceedings of ACL .

 He et al. (2024b) 
 
Hongliang He, Wenlin Yao, Kaixin Ma, Wenhao Yu, Hongming Zhang, Tianqing Fang, Zhenzhong Lan, and Dong Yu. 2024b.

 Openwebvoyager: Building multimodal web agents via iterative real-world exploration, feedback and optimization.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.19609 .

 He et al. (2021) 
 
Pengcheng He, Xiaodong Liu, Jianfeng Gao, and Weizhu Chen. 2021.

 Deberta: decoding-enhanced bert with disentangled attention .

 In Proceedings of ICLR .

 Hong et al. (2024) 
 
Wenyi Hong, Weihan Wang, Qingsong Lv, Jiazheng Xu, Wenmeng Yu, Junhui Ji, Yan Wang, Zihan Wang, Yuxiao Dong, Ming Ding, and Jie Tang. 2024.

 Cogagent: A visual language model for GUI agents .

 In Proceedings of CVPR .

 Jiang et al. (2023) 
 
Albert Q Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Arthur Mensch, Chris Bamford, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego de las Casas, Florian Bressand, Gianna Lengyel, Guillaume Lample, Lucile Saulnier, et al. 2023.

 Mistral 7b.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.06825 .

 Kapoor et al. (2024) 
 
Raghav Kapoor, Yash Parag Butala, Melisa Russak, Jing Yu Koh, Kiran Kamble, Waseem AlShikh, and Ruslan Salakhutdinov. 2024.

 Omniact: A dataset and benchmark for enabling multimodal generalist autonomous agents for desktop and web .

 In Proceedings of ECCV .

 Koh et al. (2024) 
 
Jing Yu Koh, Stephen McAleer, Daniel Fried, and Ruslan Salakhutdinov. 2024.

 Tree search for language model agents.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.01476 .

 Lai et al. (2024) 
 
Hanyu Lai, Xiao Liu, Iat Long Iong, Shuntian Yao, Yuxuan Chen, Pengbo Shen, Hao Yu, Hanchen Zhang, Xiaohan Zhang, Yuxiao Dong, and Jie Tang. 2024.

 Autowebglm: A large language model-based web navigating agent .

 In Proceedings of KDD .

 Li et al. (2024) 
 
Wei Li, William E Bishop, Alice Li, Christopher Rawles, Folawiyo Campbell-Ajala, Divya Tyamagundlu, and Oriana Riva. 2024.

 On the effects of data scale on UI control agents .

 In Proceedings of NeurIPS Datasets and Benchmarks Track .

 Liu et al. (2018) 
 
Evan Zheran Liu, Kelvin Guu, Panupong Pasupat, Tianlin Shi, and Percy Liang. 2018.

 Reinforcement learning on web interfaces using workflow-guided exploration .

 In Proceedings of ICLR .

 Liu et al. (2023) 
 
Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Qingyang Wu, and Yong Jae Lee. 2023.

 Visual instruction tuning .

 In Proceedings of NeurIPS .

 Lu et al. (2024) 
 
Xing Han Lu, Zdenek Kasner, and Siva Reddy. 2024.

 Weblinx: Real-world website navigation with multi-turn dialogue .

 In Proceedings of ICML .

 Mialon et al. (2024) 
 
Grégoire Mialon, Clémentine Fourrier, Thomas Wolf, Yann LeCun, and Thomas Scialom. 2024.

 GAIA: a benchmark for general AI assistants .

 In Proceedings of ICLR .

 Mitra et al. (2024) 
 
Arindam Mitra, Luciano Del Corro, Guoqing Zheng, Shweti Mahajan, Dany Rouhana, Andres Codas, Yadong Lu, Wei-ge Chen, Olga Vrousgos, Corby Rosset, et al. 2024.

 Agentinstruct: Toward generative teaching with agentic flows.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.03502 .

 Mukherjee et al. (2023) 
 
Subhabrata Mukherjee, Arindam Mitra, Ganesh Jawahar, Sahaj Agarwal, Hamid Palangi, and Ahmed Awadallah. 2023.

 Orca: Progressive learning from complex explanation traces of gpt-4.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.02707 .

 Murty et al. (2024) 
 
Shikhar Murty, Dzmitry Bahdanau, and Christopher D Manning. 2024.

 Nnetscape navigator: Complex demonstrations for web agents without a demonstrator.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.02907 .

 Ou et al. (2024) 
 
Tianyue Ou, Frank F. Xu, Aman Madaan, Jiarui Liu, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Sudipta Sengupta, Dan Roth, Graham Neubig, and Shuyan Zhou. 2024.

 Synatra: Turning indirect knowledge into direct demonstrations for digital agents at scale .

 In Proceedings of NeurIPS .

 Pan et al. (2024a) 
 
Jiayi Pan, Yichi Zhang, Nicholas Tomlin, Yifei Zhou, Sergey Levine, and Alane Suhr. 2024a.

 Autonomous evaluation and refinement of digital agents .

 In Proceedings of Conference on Language Modeling .

 Pan et al. (2024b) 
 
Yichen Pan, Dehan Kong, Sida Zhou, Cheng Cui, Yifei Leng, Bing Jiang, Hangyu Liu, Yanyi Shang, Shuyan Zhou, Tongshuang Wu, and Zhengyang Wu. 2024b.

 Webcanvas: Benchmarking web agents in online environments .

 In Agentic Markets Workshop at ICML 2024 .

 Pochat et al. (2019) 
 
Victor Le Pochat, Tom van Goethem, Samaneh Tajalizadehkhoob, Maciej Korczynski, and Wouter Joosen. 2019.

 Tranco: A research-oriented top sites ranking hardened against manipulation .

 In Proceedings of Network and Distributed System Security Symposium .

 Qin et al. (2025) 
 
Yujia Qin, Yining Ye, Junjie Fang, Haoming Wang, Shihao Liang, Shizuo Tian, Junda Zhang, Jiahao Li, Yunxin Li, Shijue Huang, et al. 2025.

 Ui-tars: Pioneering automated gui interaction with native agents.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.12326 .

 Rawles et al. (2023) 
 
Christopher Rawles, Alice Li, Daniel Rodriguez, Oriana Riva, and Timothy P Lillicrap. 2023.

 Androidinthewild: A large-scale dataset for android device control .

 In Proceedings of NeurIPS Datasets and Benchmarks Track .

 Sahu et al. (2022) 
 
Gaurav Sahu, Pau Rodríguez, Issam H. Laradji, Parmida Atighehchian, David Vázquez, and Dzmitry Bahdanau. 2022.

 Data augmentation for intent classification with off-the-shelf large language models .

 In Proceedings of the 4th Workshop on NLP for Conversational AI, ConvAI@ACL .

 Shen et al. (2024) 
 
Junhong Shen, Atishay Jain, Zedian Xiao, Ishan Amlekar, Mouad Hadji, Aaron Podolny, and Ameet Talwalkar. 2024.

 Scribeagent: Towards specialized web agents using production-scale workflow data.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.15004 .

 Su et al. (2024) 
 
Yu Su, Diyi Yang, Shunyu Yao, and Tao Yu. 2024.

 Language agents: Foundations, prospects, and risks .

 In Proceedings of EMNLP: Tutorial Abstracts .

 Tang et al. (2023) 
 
Ruixiang Tang, Xiaotian Han, Xiaoqian Jiang, and Xia Hu. 2023.

 Does synthetic data generation of llms help clinical text mining?

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.04360 .

 Wang et al. (2024a) 
 
Peng Wang, Shuai Bai, Sinan Tan, Shijie Wang, Zhihao Fan, Jinze Bai, Keqin Chen, Xuejing Liu, Jialin Wang, Wenbin Ge, Yang Fan, Kai Dang, Mengfei Du, Xuancheng Ren, Rui Men, Dayiheng Liu, Chang Zhou, Jingren Zhou, and Junyang Lin. 2024a.

 Qwen2-vl: Enhancing vision-language model’s perception of the world at any resolution.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.12191 .

 Wang et al. (2024b) 
 
Xingyao Wang, Yangyi Chen, Lifan Yuan, Yizhe Zhang, Yunzhu Li, Hao Peng, and Heng Ji. 2024b.

 Executable code actions elicit better LLM agents .

 In Proceedings of ICML .

 Wu et al. (2024) 
 
Zhiyong Wu, Chengcheng Han, Zichen Ding, Zhenmin Weng, Zhoumianze Liu, Shunyu Yao, Tao Yu, and Lingpeng Kong. 2024.

 OS-copilot: Towards generalist computer agents with self-improvement .

 In Proceedings of ICLR 2024 Workshop on Large Language Model (LLM) Agents .

 Xie et al. (2024) 
 
Tianbao Xie, Danyang Zhang, Jixuan Chen, Xiaochuan Li, Siheng Zhao, Ruisheng Cao, Toh Jing Hua, Zhoujun Cheng, Dongchan Shin, Fangyu Lei, Yitao Liu, Yiheng Xu, Shuyan Zhou, Silvio Savarese, Caiming Xiong, Victor Zhong, and Tao Yu. 2024.

 OSWorld: Benchmarking multimodal agents for open-ended tasks in real computer environments .

 In Proceedings of NeurIPS Datasets and Benchmarks Track .

 Xu et al. (2021) 
 
Nancy Xu, Sam Masling, Michael Du, Giovanni Campagna, Larry Heck, James A. Landay, and Monica Lam. 2021.

 Grounding open-domain instructions to automate web support tasks .

 In Proceedings of NAACL .

 Xu et al. (2025a) 
 
Yiheng Xu, Dunjie Lu, Zhennan Shen, Junli Wang, Zekun Wang, Yuchen Mao, Caiming Xiong, and Tao Yu. 2025a.

 Agenttrek: Agent trajectory synthesis via guiding replay with web tutorials .

 In Proceedings of ICLR .

 Xu et al. (2024) 
 
Yiheng Xu, Hongjin Su, Chen Xing, Boyu Mi, Qian Liu, Weijia Shi, Binyuan Hui, Fan Zhou, Yitao Liu, Tianbao Xie, Zhoujun Cheng, Siheng Zhao, Lingpeng Kong, Bailin Wang, Caiming Xiong, and Tao Yu. 2024.

 Lemur: Harmonizing natural language and code for language agents .

 In Proceedings of ICLR .

 Xu et al. (2025b) 
 
Yiheng Xu, Zekun Wang, Junli Wang, Dunjie Lu, Tianbao Xie, Amrita Saha, Doyen Sahoo, Tao Yu, and Caiming Xiong. 2025b.

 Aguvis: Unified pure vision agents for autonomous gui interaction .

 In Proceedings of ICML .

 Xue et al. (2025) 
 
Tianci Xue, Weijian Qi, Tianneng Shi, Chan Hee Song, Boyu Gou, Dawn Song, Huan Sun, and Yu Su. 2025.

 An illusion of progress? assessing the current state of web agents.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.01382 .

 Yan et al. (2023) 
 
An Yan, Zhengyuan Yang, Wanrong Zhu, Kevin Lin, Linjie Li, Jianfeng Wang, Jianwei Yang, Yiwu Zhong, Julian McAuley, Jianfeng Gao, et al. 2023.

 Gpt-4v in wonderland: Large multimodal models for zero-shot smartphone gui navigation.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.07562 .

 Yang et al. (2023) 
 
Jianwei Yang, Hao Zhang, Feng Li, Xueyan Zou, Chunyuan Li, and Jianfeng Gao. 2023.

 Set-of-mark prompting unleashes extraordinary visual grounding in gpt-4v.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.11441 .

 Yao et al. (2022) 
 
Shunyu Yao, Howard Chen, John Yang, and Karthik Narasimhan. 2022.

 Webshop: Towards scalable real-world web interaction with grounded language agents .

 In Proceedings of NeurIPS .

 Ye et al. (2022) 
 
Jiacheng Ye, Jiahui Gao, Qintong Li, Hang Xu, Jiangtao Feng, Zhiyong Wu, Tao Yu, and Lingpeng Kong. 2022.

 Zerogen: Efficient zero-shot learning via dataset generation .

 In Proceedings of EMNLP .

 Yoran et al. (2024) 
 
Ori Yoran, Samuel Joseph Amouyal, Chaitanya Malaviya, Ben Bogin, Ofir Press, and Jo