# FULL TEXT — Towards an AI co-scientist

https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.18864v1

arXiv:2502.18864v1 [cs.AI] 26 Feb 2025

Towards an AI co-scientist
Juraj Gottweis∗, ‡, 1 , Wei-Hung Weng∗, ‡, 2 , Alexander Daryin∗,1 , Tao Tu∗,3 ,
Anil Palepu2 , Petar Sirkovic1 , Artiom Myaskovsky1 , Felix Weissenberger1 ,
Keran Rong3 , Ryutaro Tanno3 , Khaled Saab3 , Dan Popovici2 , Jacob Blum7 , Fan Zhang2 ,
Katherine Chou2 , Avinatan Hassidim2 , Burak Gokturk1 ,
Amin Vahdat1 , Pushmeet Kohli3 , Yossi Matias2 ,
Andrew Carroll2 , Kavita Kulkarni2 , Nenad Tomasev3 , Yuan Guan7 ,
Vikram Dhillon4 , Eeshit Dhaval Vaishnav5 , Byron Lee5 ,
Tiago R D Costa6 , José R Penadés6 , Gary Peltz7 ,
Yunhan Xu3 , Annalisa Pawlosky1, ‡ , Alan Karthikesalingam2, ‡ and Vivek Natarajan2, ‡
1

Google Cloud AI Research, 2 Google Research, 3 Google DeepMind,
4
Houston Methodist, 5 Sequome,
6
Fleming Initiative and Imperial College London,
7
Stanford University School of Medicine

Scientific discovery relies on scientists generating novel hypotheses that undergo rigorous experimental
validation. To augment this process, we introduce an AI co-scientist, a multi-agent system built on Gemini
2.0. The AI co-scientist is intended to help uncover new, original knowledge and to formulate demonstrably
novel research hypotheses and proposals, building upon prior evidence and aligned to scientist-provided
research objectives and guidance. The system’s design incorporates a generate, debate, and evolve approach
to hypothesis generation, inspired by the scientific method and accelerated by scaling test-time compute.
Key contributions include: (1) a multi-agent architecture with an asynchronous task execution framework
for flexible compute scaling; (2) a tournament evolution process for self-improving hypotheses generation.
Automated evaluations show continued benefits of test-time compute, improving hypothesis quality. While
general purpose, we focus development and validation in three biomedical areas: drug repurposing, novel
target discovery, and explaining mechanisms of bacterial evolution and anti-microbial resistance. For drug
repurposing, the system proposes candidates with promising validation findings, including candidates for
acute myeloid leukemia that show tumor inhibition in vitro at clinically applicable concentrations. For
novel target discovery, the AI co-scientist proposed new epigenetic targets for liver fibrosis, validated by
anti-fibrotic activity and liver cell regeneration in human hepatic organoids. Finally, the AI co-scientist
recapitulated unpublished experimental results via a parallel in silico discovery of a novel gene transfer
mechanism in bacterial evolution. These results, detailed in separate, co-timed reports, demonstrate the
potential to augment biomedical and scientific discovery and usher an era of AI empowered scientists.

1 Introduction
Human ingenuity and creativity propel the advancement of fundamental research in science and medicine.
However, researchers, particularly in biomedicine, are faced with a breadth and depth conundrum. The
complexity of biomedical topics require increasingly deep and specific subject matter expertise, while leaps
in insight may still arise from broad knowledge bridging across disciplines. With the rapid rise in scientific
publications and the availability of numerous technologies for specialized high-throughput assays, mastery of
both discipline-specific depth and trans-disciplinary insight can be challenging.
Despite these challenges, many modern breakthroughs have emerged from trans-disciplinary endeavours.
Emmanuelle Charpentier and Jennifer Doudna won the 2020 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for their work on
CRISPR [1], which combined techniques and strategies ranging from microbiology to genetics to molecular
biology. These benefits of synergy have also been seen beyond experimental biomedicine in numerous other
areas of science. Notably, Geoffrey Hinton and John Hopfield combined ideas from physics and neuroscience [2,
3] to develop artificial intelligence (AI) systems, which were awarded the 2024 Nobel Prize in Physics.
∗ Equal contributions.
‡ Corresponding authors: {juro, ckbjimmy, apawlosky, alankarthi, natviv}@google.com

(a)

The AI co-scientist multi-agent system

Scientist inputs

Research plan
configuration

Research goal

Scientist
The scientist interacts
with the system by
specifying a research
goal in natural language.
They can also suggest
their own ideas and
proposals, provide
feedback and reviews,
and interact via a chat
interface to guide the
co-scientist system.
Discuss via
chat interface

Scientist describes a
research goal along with
preferences, experiment
constraints, and other
attributes.
Add idea
Review idea
Discuss research

Research proposals and
overview
Top-ranked research
hypotheses and proposals
are summarized into a
research overview and
shared with the scientist.

Generation agent

AI

Literature exploration

Ranking agent
tournaments

Simulated scientific debate

AI co-scientist

Reflection agent

The AI co-scientist
continuously generates,
reviews, debates, and
improves research
hypotheses and
proposals toward the
research goal provided
by the scientist.

Full review with web search

Research hypotheses
comparison and ranking
with scientific debate in
tournaments. Limitations
and top win-loss patterns
are summarized and
provided as feedback to
other agents. This enables
iterative improvement in
quality of research
hypothesis generation
creating a
self-improving loop.

Simulation review
Tournament review
Deep verification
Evolution agent
Inspiration from other ideas

Tool Use

Simplification

Search

Research extension

Additional tools

Proximity agent
Meta-review agent

Memory

Research overview formulation

The AI co-scientist system design
Suggest an existing drug that could be
repurposed for acute myeloid leukemia (AML)
treatment and provide experimentally
testable concentrations for an IC50 assay.
The drug should inhibit the proliferation of
AML cell lines, particularly MOLM13.

With preclinical evidence
Binimetinib, Pacritinib, …
Completely novel repurposing
KIRA6, Leflunomide, …

Scientist provide research goal to identify possible drug
repurposing candidates for acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

The AI co-scientist generates predictions for AML drug
repurposing. Scientists review and selects candidates for
in vitro experiments.

AML cell activity

Application

(b)
Suggested drug
Suggested novel drug
IC50

Drug concentration
In vitro experiments show that the proposed co-scientist drug
repurposing candidates inhibit tumor activity in AML cell lines.

Propose a novel hypothesis about specific
epigenetic alterations contributing to
myofibroblast formation in liver fibrosis.

The AI co-scientist identifies
three novel epigenetic targets

Scientist specify research goal to identify novel epigenetic
targets for liver fibrosis.

The AI co-scientist proposes several epigenetic
target candidates for in vitro experiments.

Fibroblast fold change

Drug repurposing for acute myeloid leukemia (AML)
Disease
progression

Untreated

Fibrosis
inducer

Fibrosis
inhibitor

Suggested
drug 1

Suggested
drug 2

FDA-approved

In vitro experiments show that the drugs based on co-scientist suggested
epigenetic targets reduce the fibrogenesis in human hepatic organoids.

Identifying novel treatment targets for liver fibrosis

Basic research

Hypothesis generation
Why are cf-PICIs found in
many bacterial species?

2015-2024: Scientists create novel
hypothesis, and validate experimentally
over ~ 10 years of iterative research

Scientists start exploring the cf-PICI
mechanisms in 2015.
2024: The AI co-scientist generated
research hypothesis recapitulates the
empirical findings in 2 days

Experimental validation

New insights submitted to a top journal

Independently propose the same hypothesis

Recapitulate result

The AI co-scientist hypothesis
Conserved regions on capsids and tails
Capsid interaction with bacterial membranes
…

Parallel in-silico discovery of bacterial gene transfer mechanism relevant to antimicrobial resistance (AMR)
Figure 1 | The AI co-scientist system design and experimental validation summary. (a) Here, we illustrate the
different components of the the AI co-scientist multi-agent system, and its interaction paradigm with scientists. Given a research
goal in natural language, the co-scientist generates novel research hypotheses and proposals. The system employs specialized
agents — Generation, Reflection, Ranking, Evolution, Proximity (which evaluates relatedness), Meta-review (which provides high
level analysis) — to continuously generate, debate, and evolve research hypotheses within a tournament framework. Feedback
from the tournament enables iterative improvement, creating a self-improving loop towards novel and high-quality outputs. The
co-scientist leverages tools, including web search and specialized AI models to improve the grounding and quality of generated
research hypotheses. Scientists can converse with the co-scientist in natural language to specify research goals, incorporate
constraints, provide feedback and suggest new directions for explorations via the designated user interface. (b) We perform
end-to-end validation of the co-scientist generated hypotheses in three important topics of biomedicine with varied complexity—
suggesting novel drug repurposing candidates for acute myeloid leukemia (AML) (upper panel), discovering novel epigenetic
targets for liver fibrosis treatment (middle panel), and recapitulating the discovery of novel mechanism of gene transfer evolution
in bacteria key to anti-microbial resistance (lower panel). The co-scientist’s hypotheses for these three settings are externally,
independently validated by in vitro laboratory experiments and detailed in separate preprints co-timed with this work. In the
figure, blue denotes expert scientist inputs while red denotes the co-scientist agents or outputs.
|2

Suggested drug 1
Suggested drug 2
Suggested drug 3

There has been rapid technological progress in AI towards generally intelligent and collaborative systems,
which might empower scientists in creatively traversing and expertly reasoning across disciplinary domains.
Such systems are capable of advanced reasoning [4–6], multimodal understanding [6], and agentic behaviors [7]
such as the ability to use tools to solve complex tasks over long time horizons. Further, the trends with
distillation [8] and inference time compute costs [6, 9] indicate that such intelligent and general AI systems
are rapidly becoming more affordable and available. Motivated by the aforementioned unmet needs in the
modern discovery process in science and medicine and building on the advancements in frontier AI [10], we
develop and introduce an AI co-scientist system.
The co-scientist is designed to act as a helpful assistant and collaborator to scientists and to help accelerate
the scientific discovery process. The system is a compound, multi-agent AI system [11] building on Gemini
2.0 and designed to mirror the reasoning process underpinning the scientific method [12]. Given a research
goal specified in natural language, the system can search and reason over relevant literature to summarize
and synthesize prior work and build on it to propose novel, original research hypotheses and experimental
protocols for downstream validations (Figure 1a). The co-scientist provides grounding for its recommendations
by citing relevant literature and explaining the reasoning behind its proposals.
This work does not aim to completely automate the scientific process with AI. Instead, the co-scientist is
purpose-built for a “scientist-in-the-loop” collaborative paradigm, to help domain experts augment their
hypothesis generation process and guide the exploration that follows. Scientists can specify their research
goals in simple natural language, including informing the system of desirable attributes for the hypotheses or
research proposals it should create and the constraints that the synthesized outputs should satisfy. They can
also collaborate and provide feedback in a variety of ways, including directly supplying their own ideas and
hypotheses, refining those generated by the system, or using natural language chat to guide the system and
ensure alignment with their expertise.
The co-scientist works through a significant scaling of the test-time compute paradigm [13–15] to iteratively
reason, evolve, and improve the outputs as it gathers more knowledge and understanding. Underpinning
the system are thinking and reasoning steps—notably a self-play based scientific debate step for generating
novel research hypotheses; tournaments that compare and rank hypotheses via the process of finding win and
loss patterns, and a hypothesis evolution process to improve their quality. Finally, the agentic nature of the
system enables it to recursively self-critique its output and use tools such as web-search to provide itself with
feedback to iteratively refine its hypotheses and research proposals.
While the co-scientist system is general-purpose and applicable across multiple scientific disciplines, in this
study we focus our development and validation of the system to biomedicine. We validate the co-scientist’s
capability in three impactful areas of biomedicine with varied complexity: (1) drug repurposing, (2) novel
treatment targets discovery, and (3) new mechanistic explanations for antimicrobial resistance (Figure 1b).
Drug development is an increasingly time-consuming and expensive process [16] in which new therapeutics
require restarting many aspects of the discovery and development process for each indication or disease
(roughly 70% of drug approvals are for new drugs). In contrast, drug repurposing—–identifying novel
therapeutic indications for drugs beyond their original intended use–—has emerged as a compelling strategy
to address these challenges [17]. Successful examples of repurposing include Humira (adalimumab) and
Keytruda (pembrolizumab), both of which have become among the most successful drugs in history. [17].
The process typically involves analyzing molecular signatures, signaling pathways, drug interactions, clinical
trial results, adverse event reports, and other literature-based information [18], along with off-label use data
and, in some cases, patient experiences. However, drug repurposing is limited by several factors: (1) the
need for extensive expertise across biomedical, molecular biology, and biochemical systems, (2) the inherent
complexity of mammalian biological systems, and (3) the time-intensive nature of traditional computational
biology analyses required. We leverage the co-scientist to generate predictions for large-scale drug repurposing,
validating the generated predictions using a combination of computational biology, expert clinician feedback,
and in vitro wet-lab validation approaches. Notably, our system has proposed novel repurposing candidates
for acute myeloid leukamia (AML) that inhibit tumor viability at clinically relevant concentrations in vitro
across multiple AML cell lines.
Unlike drug repurposing, which is a combinatorial search problem through a large but constrained set of

|3

drugs and diseases, identifying novel treatment targets for diseases presents a more significant challenge,
traditionally requiring extensive literature review, deep biological understanding, sophisticated hypothesis
generation and complex experimental validation strategies. The uncertainty of identifying novel treatment
targets is significantly greater than in drug repurposing, as it involves not only repurposing existing compounds
but also uncovering entirely new components and mechanisms within biological systems. This target discovery
process can be inefficient, potentially leading to suboptimal hypothesis selection and prioritization for in
vitro and in vivo experimentation. Given the high costs and time associated with experimental validation, a
more effective approach is needed. We probe the capabilities of the co-scientist to propose, rank, and provide
experimental protocols for novel research hypotheses pertaining to target discovery. To demonstrate this
capability, we focus on liver fibrosis, a prevalent and serious disease, showcasing the co-scientist’s potential
to discover novel treatment targets amenable to experimental validation. In particular, the co-scientist has
suggested novel epigenetic targets demonstrating significant anti-fibrotic activity in human hepatic organoids.
As a third validation of the capabilities of our system, we focus on generation of hypotheses to explain
mechanisms related to gene transfer evolution in bacteria pertaining to antimicrobial resistance (AMR) mechanisms developed by microbes to circumvent drug applications used to fight infections. This is arguably
an even more complex challenge than drug repurposing and target discovery and involves understanding of
not only the molecular mechanisms of gene transfer (conjugation, transduction, and transformation) but also
the ecological and evolutionary pressures that drive the spread of AMR genes: a system-level problem with
many interacting variables. This is also an important healthcare challenge with increasing rates of infections
and deaths worldwide [19]. In this validation, researchers instructed the AI co-scientist to explore a topic that
had already been subject to novel discovery by their independent research group. Notably, at the time of
instructing the AI co-scientist system, the researchers’ novel experimental insights had not yet been published
or revealed in the public domain. The system was instructed to hypothesize how capsid-forming phageinducible chromosomal islands (cf-PICIs) exist across multiple bacterial species. The system independently
proposed that cf-PICIs interact with diverse phage tails to expand their host range. This in silico discovery
mirrored the novel and experimentally validated results that expert researchers had already performed, as
detailed in the co-timed report [20, 21].
Overall, our key contributions are summarized as follows:
• Introducing an AI co-scientist. We develop and introduce an AI co-scientist that goes beyond literature
summarization and “deep research” tools to assist scientists in uncovering new knowledge, novel hypothesis
generation and experimental planning.
• Significant scaling of test-time compute paradigm for scientific reasoning. The co-scientist
is built on a Gemini 2.0 multi-agent architecture, utilizing an asynchronous task execution framework.
This framework allows the system to flexibly allocate computational resources to scientific reasoning,
mirroring key aspects of the scientific method. Specifically, the system uses self-play strategies, including a
scientific debate and a tournament-based evolution process, to iteratively refine hypotheses and research
proposals creating a self-improving loop. Using automated evaluations across 15 complex expert curated
open scientific goals, we demonstrate the benefits of scaling the test-time compute paradigm with the AI
co-scientist outperforming other state-of-the-art (SOTA) agentic and reasoning models in generating high
quality hypotheses for complex problems.
• Expert-in-the-loop scientific workflow. Our system is designed for collaboration with scientists. The
system can flexibly incorporate conversational feedback in natural language from scientists and co-develop,
evolve and refine outputs.
• End-to-end validation of the co-scientist in important topics in biomedicine. We present
end-to-end validation of novel AI-generated hypotheses through new empirical findings in three distinct
and increasingly complex areas of biomedicine: drug repurposing, novel target discovery, and antimicrobial
resistance. The AI co-scientist predicts novel repurposing drugs for AML, identifies novel epigenetic
treatment targets grounded in preclinical evidence for liver fibrosis, and proposes novel mechanisms for
gene transfer in bacterial evolution and antimicrobial resistance. These discoveries from the AI co-scientist
have been validated in wet-lab settings and are detailed in separate, co-timed technical reports.

|4

2 Related Works
2.1 Reasoning models and test-time compute scaling
The modern revolution in foundation AI models [22] and large language models (LLMs) has been largely
driven by advances in pre-training techniques [23, 24], leading to breakthroughs in models like the GPT and
Gemini family [25, 26]. These models, trained on increasingly massive internet-scale and multimodal datasets,
have demonstrated impressive abilities in language understanding and generation leading to breakthrough
performance in a variety of benchmarks [27, 28]. However, a key area of ongoing development is enhancing their
reasoning capabilities. This has led to the emergence of “reasoning models” which go beyond simply predicting
the next word and instead attempt to mimic human thought processes [29]. One promising direction in this
pursuit is the test-time compute paradigm. This approach moves beyond solely relying on the knowledge
acquired during pre-training and allocates additional computational resources during inference to enable
System-2 style thinking—slower deliberate reasoning to reduce uncertainty and progress optimally towards
the goal [30]. This concept emerged with early successes such as AlphaGo [15], which used Monte Carlo Tree
Search (MCTS) to explore game states and strategically select moves, and Libratus [14], which employed
similar techniques to achieve superhuman performance in poker. This paradigm has now found applications
in LLMs, where increased compute at test-time allows for more thorough exploration of possible responses,
leading to improved reasoning and accuracy [11, 13, 29, 31–35]. Recent advancements, like the Deepseek-R1
model [4], further demonstrate the potential of test-time compute by leveraging reinforcement learning to
refine the model’s “chain-of-thought” and enhance complex reasoning abilities over longer horizons. In this
work, we propose a significant scaling of the test-time compute paradigm using inductive biases derived from
the scientific method to design a multi-agent framework for scientific reasoning and hypothesis generation
without any additional learning techniques.

2.2 AI-driven scientific discovery
AI-driven scientific discovery represents a paradigm shift in how research is conducted across various scientific
domains. Recent advancements, particularly the development of large deep learning and generative models,
have cemented AI’s role in scientific discovery. This is best exemplified by AlphaFold 2’s remarkable progress
in the grand challenge of protein structure prediction, which has revolutionized structural biology and opened
new avenues for drug discovery and materials science [36]. Other notable examples include the development
of novel antibiotics, protein binder design, and material discovery with AI [37–39].
Building on these successes with specialized, bespoke AI models, there has been recent work exploring the even
more ambitious goal of fully integrating AI, especially modern LLM-based systems, into the complete research
workflow, from initial hypothesis generation all the way to manuscript writing. This end-to-end integration
represents a significant shift, presenting both unprecedented opportunities and significant challenges as the
field moves beyond specialized AI tools toward realizing the potential of AI as an active collaborator, or even,
as some envision, a nascent “AI scientist” [40, 41].
As an example of this shift, Liang et al. [42] directly assessed the utility of LLMs for providing feedback on
research manuscripts. Through both a retrospective analysis of existing peer reviews and a prospective user
study, they demonstrated the significant concordance between LLM-generated feedback and that of human
reviewers. Their study, using GPT-4 [43], found that a majority of researchers perceived LLM-generated
feedback as helpful, and in some instances, even more beneficial than feedback from human colleagues.
However, while valuable, their work focuses solely on the feedback stage of the scientific process, leaving open
the question of how LLMs might be integrated into the full research cycle, from hypothesis formation to
experimental validation and manuscript writing.
Another effort embodying this shift is PaperQA2 [44], an AI agent for scientific literature search and
summarization. The authors claimed to surpass PhD and postdoc researchers on multiple literature research
tasks, as measured both by performance on objective benchmarks and human evaluations. While the system is
a useful for synthesizing information, it does not engage in scientific reasoning for novel hypothesis generation.
HypoGeniC, a system proposed by Zhou et al. [45], tackles hypothesis generation by iteratively refining
hypotheses using LLMs and a multi-armed bandit-inspired approach. The process begins with a small set of
|5

examples, from which initial hypotheses are generated. These hypotheses are then iteratively updated through
exploration and exploitation, guided by a reward function based on training accuracy. This refined set of
hypotheses is subsequently used to construct an interpretable classifier. However, the method’s reliance on
retrospective data for evaluation means the degree to which the system can generate truly novel hypotheses
remains an open question. Furthermore, the system lacks end-to-end validation beyond subjective human
evaluations.
Ifargan et al. [46] present “data-to-paper”, a platform that systematically guides multiple LLM and rulebased agents to generate research papers, with automated feedback mechanisms and information tracing for
verification. However, the evaluations are limited to recapitulating existing peer-reviewed publications and its
unclear if the system can generate truly novel, yet grounded hypothesis and research proposals.
Virtual Lab [47] is another closely related work. Here, the authors propose a team of LLM agents with a
“principal investigator” LLM guiding a team of specialized LLM agents to solve a scientific problem. The LLM
team receives high level human supervision. The authors demonstrate the utility of their work by leveraging
Virtual Lab to design nanobody binders to recent variants of SARS-CoV-2 with experimental validation.
While similar in spirit, there are significant design differences to our approach and the generality of the system
remains unclear.
Boiko et al. [48] introduced “Coscientist”, a multi-agent system powered by GPT-4, designed for autonomous
execution of complex chemical experiments. This system integrates capabilities such as web and document
searching, and code execution, to facilitate independent experimental design, planning, and execution. In
addition to similar sounding names, both “Coscientist” and our system share the overarching goal of accelerating
scientific discovery through AI. However, there are several important distinctions. Notably, “Coscientist” is
quite narrowly focused on chemical research while ours is much broadly applicable across science. Secondly,
our system has important technical innovations that lead to a self-improving system that can uncover new,
original knowledge while their approach is a more vanilla-stitching of GPT-4 based agents. Finally, despite
the name, “Coscientist” prioritizes a high degree of autonomy in experimental execution, directly interfacing
with laboratory hardware. Our system, instead, is explicitly designed as a collaborative tool, emphasizing a
“scientist-in-the-loop” approach and centers on the more cognitive aspects of the research process.
Finally, Lu et al. [40] propose “The AI Scientist”, a fully automated system designed to conduct research using
multiple collaborating LLM agents. These agents handle all stages of the research process, from defining
research problems and conducting literature reviews to designing and executing experiments, and even writing
up the results. The design shares similarities with our work—the key differences being our focus on the scaling
of the test-time compute paradigm to generate high quality hypotheses and research proposals. Secondly, their
proposed system has limited automated evaluations; in contrast, our work has a combination of automated,
human expert and end-to-end wet lab validations. Finally, our goal is to not to automate scientific discovery,
rather to build a helpful AI collaborator for scientists.

2.3 AI for biomedicine
More broadly, large AI models are increasingly demonstrating their potential in biomedical science. Both
general purpose (GPT-4, Gemini) and specialized LLMs (Med-PaLM, Med-Gemini, Galactica, Tx-LLM)
have shown strong performance on biomedical reasoning and question-answering benchmarks [25, 26, 49–52].
Beyond benchmarks, Med-PaLM 2, was successfully applied to identify causative murine genetic factors
for traits such as diabetes, cataracts, and hearing loss [53]—an early example of hypothesis generation and
LLM-assisted discovery. We have also seen the exciting development of specialized foundation and large
language models trained on DNA, RNA and protein sequences with a variety of applications [54–57]. Although
AI in biology and medicine often necessitates specialization, the rapid progress of frontier AI models has
blurred the distinction. As these models grow in scale, data diversity, and complexity, they continue to achieve
breakthroughs in areas once thought to require domain-specific AI. Our co-scientist system, with its modular
multi-agent architecture, is flexibly designed to build on top of these advancements in general-purpose frontier
AI models and leverage specialized AI models as tools to enhance the capabilities.
Drug repurposing is an important area of validation experiments in this work. The traditional approach to
this task requires both computational and experimental approaches and a comprehensive understanding of

|6

disease-drug interactions [17, 58]. While methods like knowledge graphs with graph convolutional networks
have shown promise [59, 60], their applicability is limited by the initial knowledge graph’s scope. TxGNN [61],
an example of a specialized biomedical foundation model with a graph based approach, addresses “zero-shot”
repurposing for novel diseases but remains dependent on the underlying knowledge graph’s quality and lacks
sufficient scalability and explainability. Furthermore, no end-to-end validations of the model predictions were
reported in the study. In contrast, our work, leveraging state-of-the-art LLMs in the co-scientist setup, is
more scalable. We report a combination of expert evaluations and wet-lab experiments to validate the system
predictions.

3 Introducing the AI co-scientist
This section describes the technical details, agents, and framework comprising the co-scientist system. The
co-scientist employs a multi-agent architecture built upon Gemini 2.0, integrated within an asynchronous task
execution framework. This framework allows for flexible scaling of test-time compute resources, facilitating
advanced scientific reasoning.
Given a research goal specified by an expert scientist in natural language, the co-scientist generates hypotheses
and research proposals that adhere to the following default criteria:
• Alignment with the provided research goal. The generated outputs must precisely align with the
research goals, preferences and constraints defined by the scientist.
• Plausibility. The system outputs should be free of readily apparent flaws. Any potential contradictions
with prior literature or established knowledge must be explicitly stated and justified.
• Novelty. A key objective of the co-scientist system is to generate novel hypotheses, conjectures, and
research plans grounded in prior literature, rather than simply synthesizing existing information (a
capability already addressed by existing “deep research” tools [62]).
• Testability. The system outputs should be amenable to empirical validation within the constraints
specified by the scientist.
• Safety. The system outputs will be controlled to prevent enabling unsafe, unethical, or harmful research.
Aside from these default criteria, the co-scientist can be configured with additional criteria, preferences, and
constraints as needed. For instance, it can be configured to generate outputs in formats preferred by the
researcher to improve interpretability and readability.
Throughout this section, we employ a recurring example: generating hypotheses for exploring the biological
mechanisms of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) to illustrate the various components of the co-scientist
system. While this example has been reviewed by domain experts, it remains illustrative and may contain
errors. Importantly, this example does not aim to suggest potential therapeutic avenues for ALS and should
be interpreted with utmost caution. All the examples are listed in the Appendix Section A.3.

3.1 The AI co-scientist system overview
At a high level, the co-scientist system comprises four key components:
• Natural language interface. Scientists interact with and supervise the system primarily through
natural language. This allows them to not only define the initial research goal but also refine it at any
time, provide feedback on generated hypotheses (including their own solutions), and generally guide the
system’s progress.
• Asynchronous task framework. The co-scientist employs a multi-agent system where specialized
agents operate as worker processes within an asynchronous, continuous, and configurable task execution
framework. A dedicated Supervisor agent manages the worker task queue, assigns specialized agents to
these processes, and allocates resources. This design enables the system to flexibly and effectively utilize
computational resources and iteratively improve its scientific reasoning capabilities.
• Specialized agents. Following inductive biases and scientific priors derived from the scientific method,
the process of scientific reasoning and hypothesis generation is broken down into sub-tasks. Individual,
|7

specialized agents, each equipped with customized instruction prompts, are designed to execute these
sub-tasks. These agents operate as workers coordinated by the Supervisor agent.
• Context memory. In order to enable iterative computation and scientific reasoning over long time
horizons, the co-scientist uses a persistent context memory to store and retrieve states of the agents and
the system during the course of the computation.
The Gemini 2.0 model is the foundational LLM underpinning all agents in the co-scientist system. The specific
co-scientist design was arrived at with iterative developments and is reflective of the current capabilities of
the underlying LLMs.

3.2 From research goal to research plan configuration
The research goal, specified by the scientist, serves as the entry point to the co-scientist system. Leveraging the
multimodal and long context capabilities of Gemini 2.0 models, the co-scientist efficiently processes research
goals of varying complexity, from simple statements to extensive documents spanning tens of thousands of
natural language tokens or other relevant data (e.g., including hundreds of prior publication PDFs). The
research goal may also incorporate specific constraints, attributes, and preferences related to the scientist’s
particular laboratory setting or field of work.
The co-scientist system then parses the goal to derive a research plan configuration for generating research
proposals. This configuration captures the desired proposal preferences, attributes, and constraints. For
example, it specifies whether the co-scientist should exclusively propose novel hypotheses. It also specifies
the criteria for evaluating hypothesis quality, such as novelty and experimental feasibility. These criteria are
then used by the system during its auto-evaluation and improvement phases. The attributes, preferences, and
evaluation criteria can all be customized to a given research goal. To illustrate this process, we present an
example research goal and its corresponding parsed research plan configuration in Appendix Figure A.9, where
the goal is to develop a novel hypothesis related to phosphorylation of the Nuclear Pore Complex (NPC) as a
causative mechanism for ALS [63].
Based on the research plan configuration, the Supervisor agent initiates the creation of a task queue and begins
orchestrating the specialized agents. The system operates continuously and asynchronously. Periodically,
the Supervisor agent calculates a comprehensive set of summary statistics, reflecting the system’s state and
progress toward the specified research goal. These statistics inform decisions regarding resource allocation
and the determination of whether a terminal state for the overall computation has been reached. The state is
periodically written to the associated context memory of the system and leveraged as feedback in subsequent
rounds of computation. It also enables easy restarts in-case of any failure in the system components.

3.3 The specialized agents underpinning the AI co-scientist
At the core of the co-scientist system are a coalition of specialized agents, each orchestrated by the Supervisor
agent. These agents are designed to emulate the scientific reasoning process, enabling them to generate novel
hypotheses and research plans. They are also equipped to interact with external tools, such as web search
engines and specialized AI models, through application programming interfaces (APIs). These specialized
agents are enumerated below:
• Generation agent. The agent initiates the research process by generating the initial focus areas,
iteratively extending them and generating a set of initial hypotheses and proposals that address the
research goal. This involves exploring relevant literature using web search, synthesizing existing findings
into novel directions, and engaging in simulated scientific debates for iterative improvement.
• Reflection agent. This agent simulates the role of a scientific peer reviewer, critically examining the
correctness, quality, and novelty of the generated hypotheses and research proposals. Furthermore, it
evaluates the potential of each hypothesis to provide an improved explanation for existing research
observations (identified via literature search and review), particularly those that may be under explained.
• Ranking agent. An important abstraction in the co-scientist system is the notion of a tournament
where different research proposals are evaluated and ranked enabling iterative improvements. The
Ranking agent employs and orchestrates an Elo-based tournament [64] to assess and prioritize the
|8

generated hypotheses at any given time. This involves pairwise comparisons, facilitated by simulated
scientific debates, which allow for a nuanced evaluation of the relative merits of each proposal.
• Proximity agent. This agent asynchronously computes a proximity graph for generated hypotheses,
enabling clustering of similar ideas, de-duplication, and efficient exploration of the hypothesis landscape.
• Evolution agent. The co-scientist’s iterative improvement capability relies heavily on this agent, which
continuously refines the top-ranked hypotheses emerging from the tournament. Its refinement strategies
include synthesizing existing ideas, using analogies, leveraging literature for supporting details, exploring
unconventional reasoning, and simplifying concepts for clarity.
• Meta-review agent. This agent also enables the co-scientist’s continuous improvement by synthesizing
insights from all reviews, identifying recurring patterns in tournament debates, and using these findings
to optimize other agents’ performance in subsequent iterations. This also enhances the quality and
relevance of generated hypotheses and reviews in subsequent iterations. The agent also synthesizes
top-ranked hypotheses and reviews into a comprehensive research overview for review by the scientist.

Scientist

Research goal

Configuration

Supervisor agent

Research overview
with
detailed hypotheses

Assign agents to workers
Additional
feedback

Worker
Generation agent

Proximity agent

Worker
Worker

Reflection agent

Meta-review agent

Worker

Ranking agent

Evolution agent

Context
Memory

AI

AI co-scientist

AI co-scientist specialized agents

Figure 2 | The AI co-scientist multi-agent architecture design. The co-scientist accepts a natural language research goal
from the user and parses this into a research plan configuration. This plan is then dispatched to the Supervisor agent which
evaluates this plan to assigns weights and resources to each specialized agent and subsequently queues them as worker processes
in a task queue according to these weights. The worker processes execute the queue of agent actions, and the system ultimately
aggregates all information to formulate a research overview with detailed hypotheses and proposals for the scientist. The red
boxes in the “The AI co-scientist specialized agents” section denote individual agents each with their own unique logic and role.
The blue boxes indicate the scientist-in-the-loop inputs and feedback. The dark gray arrows represent the information flow
through the co-scientist system, while the red arrows represent the information feedback loop between the specialized agents.

The Supervisor agent’s seamless orchestration of these specialized agents enables the development of valid,
novel, and testable hypotheses and research plans tailored to the input research goal.
In summary, the Generation agent curates an initial list of research hypotheses satisfying a research goal.
These are then reviewed by the Reflection agent and evaluated in a tournament by the Ranking agent. The
Evolution, Proximity, and Meta-review agents operate on the tournament state to help improve the quality of
the system outputs.
The Supervisor agent periodically computes and writes to the context memory, a comprehensive suite of
statistics, including the number of hypotheses generated and requiring review, and the progress of the
tournament. These statistics also include analyses of the effectiveness of different hypothesis generation
methodologies (e.g., generating new ideas via the Generation agent vs. improving existing ideas via the
Evolution agent). Based on these statistics, the Supervisor agent then orchestrates subsequent system
operations, i.e., generating new hypotheses, reviews, tournaments, and improvements to existing hypotheses,
by strategically weighting and sampling the specialized agents for execution via the worker processes.
Importantly, the Meta-review agent enables feedback propagation and learning without back-propagation
techniques (e.g., fine-tuning or reinforcement learning) [65]. The Meta-review agent generates feedback
|9

applicable to all agents, which is simply appended to their prompts in the next iteration—a capability
facilitated by the long-context search and reasoning capabilities of the underlying Gemini 2.0 models. Through
this feedback loop, the co-scientist continuously learns and improves in subsequent iterations with more
compute scaling.
Finally, while our work leverages Gemini 2.0, the co-scientist framework is model-agnostic and portable to
other similar models or combinations thereof. Future LLM improvements will likely enhance the co-scientist’s
capabilities. The multi-agent architecture of the co-scientist is depicted and summarized in Figure 2.
We now describe the mechanisms of action of the specialized agents in more detail.
3.3.1 Generation agent
The co-scientist Generation agent employs a diverse array of techniques and tools to generate novel hypotheses,
such as the following:
• Literature exploration via web search. The agent iteratively searches the web, retrieves and reads
relevant research articles, and grounds its reasoning by summarizing prior work. It then builds on this
summary to generate novel hypotheses and research plans. An example prompt is given in Appendix
Figure A.1.
• Simulated scientific debates. Here, the Generation agent simulates scientific debates among experts
by employing self-critique and self-play techniques. These debates typically involve multiple turns of
conversations leading to a refined hypothesis generated at the end. An example prompt is given in
Appendix Figure A.2.
• Iterative assumptions identification. The agent iteratively identifies testable intermediate assumptions, which, if proven true, can lead to novel scientific discovery. These plausible assumptions and their
sub-assumptions are identified through conditional reasoning hops and subsequently aggregated into
complete hypotheses.
• Research expansion. To identify previously unexplored areas of the hypothesis space, the Generation
agent reviews existing hypotheses and the research overview and feedback provided by the Meta-review
agent in the previous iteration. This is used to inform additional exploration directions in the research
hypothesis space.
An example hypothesis and research proposal output from the Generation agent is presented in Appendix
Figure A.10 for the aforementioned research goal regarding explaining a basic mechanism related to ALS. The
Generation agent also summarizes and categorizes each generated hypothesis, allowing scientists to quickly
grasp the core ideas.
3.3.2 Reflection agent
Reviews are integral to the co-scientist’s effectiveness in generating novel proposals. The Reflection agent
searches relevant prior work (via web search or a dedicated scientist-provided repository), assesses existing
experimental evidence for or against a given hypothesis, and rigorously verifies the novelty, correctness, and
quality of generated outputs. Effective reviews filter inaccurate and, when stipulated, non-novel hypotheses.
Moreover, they also provide feedback to all other agents, driving continuous improvement. The Reflection
agent employs the following types of review:
• Initial review. Building on the co-scientist’s default evaluation criteria, the Reflection agent performs
an initial review assessing the correctness, quality, novelty, and a preliminary assessment of safety (ethics)
of the generated hypotheses. For a more in-depth discussion on safety considerations see Section 6. This
initial review, which doesn’t use external tools like web search, aims to quickly discard flawed, non-novel,
or otherwise unsuitable hypotheses.
• Full review. If a hypothesis passes the initial review, the Reflection agent performs a full review,
leveraging external tools and web searches to identify relevant articles for improved reasoning and
grounding. This review evaluates the hypothesis’s correctness, quality, and novelty similar to the initial
review but with full literature search. For correctness and quality, the agent scrutinizes underlying
|10

assumptions and reasoning. For novelty, it summarizes known aspects of the hypothesis and then
judges their novelty based on existing literature. An example full novelty review is shown in Appendix
Figure A.11, and an example of review critiques is in Appendix Figure A.12. A complete full review
example is shown in Appendix Figure A.13.
• Deep verification review. The Reflection agent also conducts a deep verification review, decomposing
the hypothesis into constituent assumptions. Each assumption is further broken down into fundamental
sub-assumptions, decontextualized, and independently evaluated for correctness to identify invalidating
elements for subsequent filtering. Concurrently, the reasons for potential hypothesis invalidation due
to incorrect assumptions are summarized. This deep verification helps the co-scientist detect subtle
errors within complex hypotheses, such as flaws in reasoning or inaccurate experimental protocols. An
identified error doesn’t necessarily invalidate the core hypothesis; the Reflection agent assesses whether
the incorrect assumption is fundamental to the hypothesis and incorporates this reasoning into the
review. Non-fundamental errors can be addressed during subsequent refinement stages. An example deep
verification review is provided in Appendix Figure A.14 for the previously introduced ALS hypothesis.
We also show another example of a deep verification review via probing questions in the context of drug
repurposing for AML in Appendix Figure A.15.
• Observation review. In addition, the Reflection agent also explores whether a given hypothesis can
account for long-tail observations from prior experimental results. This review aims to determine if
the hypothesis can provide insights on existing experimental findings and observed phenomena within
relevant articles. For each observation, the agent assesses if the hypothesis is a superior explanation
over existing ones, assuming its validity. Positive observations are summarized and appended to the
hypothesis. Note that this review often completes without any important findings (as in the case of
the ALS hypothesis example). An example prompt to generate observations is provided in Appendix
Figure A.3. An illustrative example of an observation review is provided in Appendix Figure A.16 in
the context of an alternate hypothesis for explaining a mechanism of anti-microbial resistance.
• Simulation review. The Reflection agent also reviews hypotheses by simulating them in a step-wise
fashion (e.g., simulating the mechanism of action or the proposed experiment in the proposal). This
simulation allows the agent to identify and summarize potential failure scenarios. This review method is
built on the assumption that frontier LLMs may have developed an internal world model that enables
them to simulate and accurately predict various scientific phenomena.
• Recurrent/tournament review. The Reflection agent adapts its full reviews based on the co-scientist’s
growing knowledge. By analyzing reviewed hypotheses and results of the tournament conducted by the
Ranking agent, the Reflection agent identifies recurring issues and improvement opportunities, refining
its reviews accordingly.
Additionally, the co-scientist can incorporate reviews from expert scientists to guide ranking and improvements
(further discussed in Section 3.4). We aim to have the Reflection agent’s comprehensive set of reviews cover
the common methods scientists employ when critiquing and refining research hypotheses and proposals.
3.3.3 Ranking agent
The AI co-scientist explores numerous hypotheses and research proposals towards a research goal, necessitating
a ranking mechanism to prioritize computational resources toward the most promising candidates. This task
is performed by the Ranking agent. The agent uses an Elo-based tournament [64] to automatically evaluate
and rank all hypotheses, providing supporting rationale. This ranking serves to communicate to scientists
an ordered list of research hypotheses and proposals aligned with the research goal. Despite its assumptions
and limitations [66], Elo remains a good proxy for relative ranking, and it has previously been applied to
rank extracted patterns and ideas in games [67]. In the future, extensions may be considered [68]. We set the
initial Elo rating of 1200 for the newly added hypothesis.
Because the tournament is computationally intensive, the Ranking agent employs several optimization
strategies. Top-ranked hypotheses are compared pairwise in tournament matches through multi-turn scientific
debates [69]. This mitigates ordering bias and focuses on novelty, correctness, and testability. Lower-ranked
hypotheses undergo single-turn comparisons in a pairwise fashion in their tournament match. The agent
concludes each comparison with a decision regarding which hypothesis is better. Appendix Figure A.4 and
|11

Appendix Figure A.5 show example prompts. Appendix Figure A.17 shows an example of the Ranking agent
conducting a scientific debate match in a tournament to compare two hypotheses.
The Ranking agent prioritizes tournament matches as follows: (1) hypotheses are more likely to be compared
with similar ones (based on the Proximity agent’s graph, described in the next section); (2) newer and
top-ranking hypotheses are prioritized for participation in tournament matches. Successful hypotheses quickly
achieve favorable rankings and this informs the tournament state for subsequent iterations.
3.3.4 Proximity agent
The Proximity agent calculates the similarity between research hypotheses and proposals, and builds a
proximity graph, taking into account the specific research goal. Although it doesn’t directly participate in
hypothesis generation, the Proximity agent assists the Ranking agent in organizing tournament matches and
showcasing a diverse range of ideas related to the research goal. This allows scientists to quickly explore areas
of interest and easily identify related concepts.
3.3.5 Evolution agent
The Evolution agent continuously refines and improves existing hypotheses and proposals using several
approaches including:
• Enhancement through grounding. Here the agent attempts to improve hypotheses by identifying
weaknesses, generating search queries, retrieving and reading articles, suggesting improvements and
elaborating on details to fill reasoning gaps.
• Coherence, practicality and feasibility improvements. The agent aims to address issues and
creates more coherent hypotheses, potentially rectifying underlying problems with invalid initial assumptions. The agent also refines the hypotheses to make them more practical and feasible. Appendix
Figure A.6 provides an example of the feasibility improvement prompt.
• Inspiration from existing hypotheses. The agent additionally creates new hypotheses inspired by
single or multiple top-ranked hypotheses.
• Combination. The agent also attempts to directly combine the best aspects of several top-ranking
hypotheses to create new hypotheses.
• Simplification. The agent simplifies hypotheses for easier verification and testing.
• Out-of-box thinking. The agent also explores out-of-the-box ideas by moving away from a subset of
hypotheses and generating divergent ones. Appendix Figure A.7 provides an example prompt for this.
The Evolution agent generates new hypotheses; it doesn’t modify or replace existing ones. This strategy
protects the quality of top-ranked hypotheses from flawed improvements, as each new hypothesis must also
compete in the tournament. The evolution of research hypotheses and proposals also allows the co-scientist to
iteratively combine different improvement techniques and gradually improve the quality of the results.
3.3.6 Meta-review agent
The Meta-review agent plays a crucial role in the co-scientist’s feedback loop, enabling self-improvement in
scientific reasoning. This agent operates on the tournament state and summarizes common patterns identified
in reviews and scientific debates in the tourn