# FULL TEXT — Plan-Then-Execute: An Empirical Study of User Trust and Team Performance When Using LLM Agents As A Daily Assistant

https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.01390v1

Plan-Then-Execute: An Empirical Study of User Trust and Team Performance When Using LLM Agents As A Daily Assistant 

 1 Introduction 
 
 2 Background and Related Work 
 
 2.1 Human-AI Collaboration 
 2.2 Trust and Reliance on AI systems 
 2.3 Task Support with LLMs and LLM Agents 

 3 Method 
 
 3.1 Overview of User Involvement in Plan-then-execute LLM Agents 
 3.2 Planning 
 3.3 Execution 
 3.4 Hypotheses 

 4 Study Design 
 
 4.1 Experimental Conditions 
 4.2 Tasks 
 4.3 Measures and Variables 
 4.4 Participants 
 4.5 Procedure 

 5 Results 
 
 5.1 Descriptive Statistics 
 
 5.2 Hypothesis Verification 
 
 5.2.1 The Impact of User Involvement in Planning on Calibrated Trust 
 5.2.2 The Impact of User Involvement in Planning on Task Performance 
 5.2.3 The Impact of User Involvement in Execution on Calibrated Trust in Execution Outcome 
 5.2.4 The Impact of User Involvement on Overall Task Performance 

 5.3 Exploratory Analysis 
 
 5.3.1 The Impact of Covariates 
 5.3.2 Impact of Plan Quality and Risk Percetion. 
 5.3.3 Failure Analysis 
 5.3.4 Confidence Dynamics 

 5.4 Analysis of Open Feedback 

 6 Discussion 
 
 6.1 Key Findings 
 6.2 Implications 
 6.3 Caveats and Limitations 

 7 Conclusion 
 A Details about Tasks 

 \setcctype 
 by

 Plan-Then-Execute: An Empirical Study of User Trust and Team Performance When Using LLM Agents As A Daily Assistant 

 Gaole He
 
 Delft University of Technology Delft The Netherlands 
 
 g.he@tudelft.nl 
 
 ,  
 Gianluca Demartini
 
 The University of Queensland Brisbane Australia 
 
 g.demartini@uq.edu.au 
 
  and  
 Ujwal Gadiraju
 
 Delft University of Technology Delft The Netherlands 
 
 u.k.gadiraju@tudelft.nl 

 (2025) 
 
 Abstract. 
 Since the explosion in popularity of ChatGPT, large language models (LLMs) have continued to impact our everyday lives.
Equipped with external tools that are designed for a specific purpose ( e.g.,  for flight booking or an alarm clock), LLM agents exercise an increasing capability to assist humans in their daily work.
Although LLM agents have shown a promising blueprint as daily assistants, there is a limited understanding of how they can provide daily assistance based on planning and sequential decision making capabilities. We draw inspiration from recent work that has highlighted the value of ‘ LLM-modulo ’ setups in conjunction with humans-in-the-loop for planning tasks.
We conducted an empirical study ( N 𝑁 N italic_N = 248) of LLM agents as daily assistants in six commonly occurring tasks with different levels of risk typically associated with them ( e.g.,  flight ticket booking and credit card payments).
To ensure user agency and control over the LLM agent, we adopted LLM agents in a plan-then-execute manner, wherein the agents conducted step-wise planning and step-by-step execution in a simulation environment.
We analyzed how user involvement at each stage affects their trust and collaborative team performance. Our findings demonstrate that LLM agents can be a double-edged sword — (1) they can work well when a high-quality plan and necessary user involvement in execution are available, and (2) users can easily mistrust the LLM agents with plans that seem plausible.
We synthesized key insights for using LLM agents as daily assistants to calibrate user trust and achieve better overall task outcomes.
Our work has important implications for the future design of daily assistants and human-AI collaboration with LLM agents. 
 
 Human-AI Collaboration, Large Language Models, LLM agents, User Trust, Daily Assistant
 
 † † journalyear: 2025 † † copyright: cc † † conference: CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems; April 26-May 1, 2025; Yokohama, Japan † † booktitle: CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI ’25), April 26-May 1, 2025, Yokohama, Japan † † doi: 10.1145/3706598.3713218 † † isbn: 979-8-4007-1394-1/25/04 † † ccs: Human-centered computing Empirical studies in HCI † † ccs: Computing methodologies Artificial intelligence 

 Figure 1. Illustration of the human-AI collaboration with plan-then-execute LLM agents. 
 \Description 

 Illustration of the human-AI collaboration with plan-then-execute LLM agents. The planning stage mainly consists of two steps: (1) LLMs generate a draft plan (2) user edit the planning. Based on the edited plan, we get a step-wise plan (three steps in illustration). Then, in the execution stage, LLM agents will generate a sequence of actions, which is one-on-one mapping based on the plan’s primary steps. Users will join this process to decide whether they approve the predicted action or choose to be involved (with manual specification of action or give text feedback to LLM agents). After the step-by-step execution of the plan, the task is solved. 

 1. Introduction 
 
 Autonomous agents have been regarded as a research focus for artificial intelligence (AI) over the last century  (Albrecht and Stone, 2018 ) .
With the wish that autonomous agents can make our life better, many autonomous agents have been designed as virtual personal assistants  (Kepuska and Bohouta, 2018 ) .
These AI assistants ( e.g.,  Siri) perform well (albeit imperfectly) in following user instructions to execute low-risk tasks like playing a song, reporting weather forecasts, or searching for an image to support everyday tasks. However, on tasks entailing potential risks ( e.g.,  monetary payments or hiring an employee), humans hesitate to trust such AI systems due to loss aversion  (Tversky and Kahneman, 1991 ) and algorithmic aversion  (Hou and Jung, 2021 ; Mahmud et al . , 2022 ; Dietvorst et al . , 2015 ) .
Only when users can obtain a sense of control by being able to modify the outcomes of imperfect AI can they overcome such algorithm aversion and be willing to collaborate with imperfect AI systems  (Dietvorst et al . , 2018 ) . 

 With the recent rise of large language models (LLMs) in natural language understanding and generation  (Zhao et al . , 2023 ) , researchers have started to analyze LLM-based agents and their applicability in a plethora of tasks   (Xi et al . , 2023 ; Wang et al . , 2024b ) .
The term ‘ LLM agent ’ refers to an artificial entity based on LLMs that perceives its context, makes decisions, and then takes actions in response  (Xi et al . , 2023 ) .
Compared to existing deep learning and LLM-based methods ( e.g.,  chaining multiple LLMs  (Wu et al . , 2022 ) ), LLM agents provide more flexibility in task solving and user interaction, which makes them suitable for daily assistance. This is primarily due to three reasons.
First, with a planning module, LLM agents can generate a dynamic plan based on the tools provided  (Xi et al . , 2023 ; Wang et al . , 2024b ) .
Such plans are typically defined in a logical structure — step-wise plans, which can be easily understood by humans.
Second, with LLMs as a core control module, users can access and interact with external toolkits via a more natural interaction ( i.e.,  conversation) with LLM agents  (Bommasani et al . , 2021 ; Zhao et al . , 2023 ) , reducing manual control efforts over function-specific tools.
For example, LLM agents can complete time-consuming jobs like information seeking and information filtering ( e.g.,  searching for a flight in itinerary planning) based on specific user needs.
Third, the Markov decision process of LLM agents can generate a sequence of actions ( i.e.,  using external toolkits) 1 1 1 In our study, the usage of one tool is the same as executing one action. Therefore, we refer to a tool and action interchangeably. as output.
Paired with an understanding of actions and necessary parameters for the interaction with the LLM agents, users can get involved in the real-time execution of tasks with LLM agents and fix potential problems while benefiting from task delegation  (Lubars and Tan, 2019 ) . Based on an intuitive framework for task delegation, Lubars et al.   (Lubars and Tan, 2019 ) found that user trust can play an important role in human delegation behaviors to AI systems. However, there is a relatively limited understanding of user trust development and calibration in collaboration with LLM agents. 

 There is also a growing debate in the machine learning and AI research communities about whether LLMs can be truly considered as reasoning and planning agents  (Kambhampati et al . , 2024 ) . With this in the backdrop, existing work on automated task completion has revealed that LLM agents can exhibit promising performance in handling complex tasks like playing games  (Wang et al . , 2023a ) , answering complex questions  (Zhuang et al . , 2024 ) , and in simulating social behavior  (Park et al . , 2023 ) .
However, such agents are still far from perfect. Due to the probabilistic nature of LLMs, there is much uncertainty in automating LLM agents for tasks with high risks attached. To avoid unintended or unexpected consequences, there is a need for user control over the real-time execution process. Through an empirical study of LLM planning capabilities, planning experts found that “LLMs’ ability to generate executable plans autonomously is rather limited”  (Valmeekam et al . , 2023 ) .
However, when combined with a sound planner in an ‘LLM-Modulo’ mode, “the LLM-generated plans can improve the search process for underlying sound planners”  (Valmeekam et al . , 2023 ) .
Humans can potentially be the ‘sound planners’ who can work in conjunction and optimize plans drafted by LLMs, which can then be executed by LLM agents. Such human-AI collaboration can reduce human efforts in generating a reliable plan from scratch.

 Attracted by the promise of LLM agents, there have been some early explorations  (Geissler et al . , 2024 ) of adopting them in human-AI collaboration.
However, the existing works have mainly analyzed how LLM agents can serve specific use cases ( e.g.,  design creation  (Geissler et al . , 2024 ) ), and others have conducted structured interviews to obtain expert insights  (Zhang et al . , 2024 ; Zheng et al . , 2023 ) .
It is still unknown how well LLM agents can work as general daily assistants to assist users in everyday tasks with varying stakes and how user trust and team performance are shaped by interacting with LLM agents. 

 In our work, we address this research gap and adopt LLM agents to assist humans in everyday tasks by following a plan-then-execute workflow  (Wang et al . , 2023b ) .
First, the LLM agent generates a step-wise plan formulated with a hierarchical structure.
Then, the LLM agent executes the generated plan by transforming it into a sequence of actions (leveraging external toolkits).
The benefits of such a plan-then-execute framing are three-fold:
(1) Compared to a dynamic process where planning and execution are bound closely, separating planning and execution into two stages provides more task clarity to the users, which reduces user cognitive load and contributes to the quality of task outcomes  (Gadiraju et al . , 2017 ) .
(2) With planning at the beginning of the task, users can develop a global understanding of how the LLM agents will execute the task.
Based on a follow-up step-by-step execution, it would be straightforward for users to be involved in such a process and control the outcomes of task execution. (3) Planning and execution are representative abstractions of how LLM agents work.
The findings of such an empirical study can be generalized to human-AI collaboration with other kinds of LLM agents ( e.g.,  dynamic planning-execution). To this end, we propose the following research questions:

 • 
 
 RQ1 : How does human involvement in the high-level planning and real-time execution shape their trust in an AI system powered by LLM agents? 

 • 
 
 RQ2 : How does human involvement in the high-level planning and real-time execution of tasks with an AI system powered by LLM agents affect the overall task performance?

 Addressing these research questions, we carried out an empirical
study ( N 𝑁 N italic_N = 248) of human-AI collaboration in six different everyday scenarios with varying stakes and risks attached ( e.g.,  credit card payment and itinerary planning).
We found that user involvement in the planning and execution can be beneficial in addressing imperfect plans and fixing execution errors.
As a result, LLM agents can achieve better task performance. However, we also found that user involvement in the planning and execution stages of the LLM agent fails to calibrate user trust in corresponding task outcomes.
A potential reason here is that the plausible plans generated by the LLMs can mislead users into trusting the LLM agents when they are in fact wrong.
Our findings highlight that user involvement can also bring about additional trade-offs to consider: (1) user involvement in the planning and execution poses a high cognitive load on users and decreases user confidence in their decisions; (2) user involvement can be harmful in some task contexts ( e.g.,  user involvement reduces plan quality).
Further research is required to understand when to provide necessary user involvement.
Our key insight is that as opposed to following a fixed mode of user involvement, it is prudent to explore how user involvement in planning and execution can be tailored to fit the task and the user. Based on our quantitative and qualitative findings, we share insights for designing effective LLM agents as daily assistants and synthesize promising directions for further research around LLM agents in the context of human-AI collaboration.
Our work has important theoretical implications for human-AI collaboration with LLM assistance and design implications for plan-then-execute LLM agents to support human-AI collaboration.

 2. Background and Related Work 
 
 Our work proposes to analyze how user involvement in the planning and execution stages of LLM agents shapes user trust in the LLM agents and the overall task performance of LLM agents.
Thus, we position our work in three realms of related literature: human-AI collaboration (§  2.1 ), trust and reliance on AI systems (§  2.2 ), task support with LLMs and LLM agents (§  2.3 ). 

 2.1. Human-AI Collaboration 
 
 In recent decades, deep learning-based AI systems have shown promising performance across various domains  (Yang et al . , 2022 ; Fernando et al . , 2021 ) and applications  (Pouyanfar et al . , 2018 ; Dong et al . , 2021 ) .
However, such AI systems are not good at dealing with out-of-distribution data  (Jia and Liang, 2017 ; McCoy et al . , 2019 ) , and their intrinsic probabilistic nature brings much uncertainty in practice  (Ghahramani, 2015 ) .
Such observations raise wide concerns about the accountability and reliability of AI systems  (Kaur et al . , 2022 ) .
Under such circumstances, human-AI collaboration has been recognized as a well-suited approach to taking advantage of their promising predictive power and ensuring trustworthy outcomes  (Lai et al . , 2023 ; Jiang et al . , 2021 ) .
While humans can provide more reliable and accountable task outcomes, too much user involvement to check and control AI outcomes is undesirable  (Lai et al . , 2022 ) .
It goes against the premise that AI systems are introduced to reduce human workload.
In that context, researchers have theorized and empirically analyzed when and where users could and should delegate to AI systems  (Lai et al . , 2022 ; Lubars and Tan, 2019 ) . 

 Task Delegation . While humans prefer to play the leading role in human-AI collaboration  (Lubars and Tan, 2019 ) , delegating to AI systems can bring benefits like cost-saving and higher efficiency.
Apart from manual delegation decisions, it is common to apply automatic rules for human delegation ( e.g.,  heuristics obtained from domain expertise or manually crafted rules  (Lai et al . , 2022 ) ).
Many user factors like trust  (Lubars and Tan, 2019 ) , human expertise domain  (Erlei et al . , 2024 ) , and AI knowledge  (Pinski et al . , 2023 ) ) have a substantial impact on human delegation behaviors.
Another relevant stream of recent research has explored AI delegation to humans  (Madras et al . , 2018 ; Fügener et al . , 2022 ; Pinski et al . , 2023 ) .
Researchers have investigated the conditions under which AI systems should defer to a human decision maker, which may bring benefits of improved fairness  (Madras et al . , 2018 ) , accuracy  (Narasimhan et al . , 2022 ) , and complementary teaming  (Hemmer et al . , 2022 ) .
Compared to human delegation, AI delegation has been observed to achieve more consistent benefits in team performance  (Fügener et al . , 2022 ; Hemmer et al . , 2023 ) . In collaboration with LLM agents, users need to determine when they should be involved in high-level planning and real-time execution. Such involvement decisions are similar to the delegation choices made by users. While task delegation is not the focus of our study, future work can explore this further. 

 AI-assisted Decision Making has attracted a lot of research focus in human-AI collaboration literature.
Most existing work has conducted empirical studies  (Lai et al . , 2023 ) and structured interviews  (Jiang et al . , 2021 ) to understand how factors surrounding the user, task, and AI systems affect human-AI collaboration.
User factors like AI literacy  (Chiang and Yin, 2022 ) , cognitive bias  (Rastogi et al . , 2022 ) , and risk perception  (Fogliato et al . , 2021 ; Green and Chen, 2021 ) have been observed to substantially impact user trust and reliance on the AI system.
Similarly, task characteristics like task complexity and uncertainty  (Salimzadeh et al . , 2023 , 2024 ) and factors of the AI system ( e.g.,  performance feedback  (Bansal et al . , 2019 ; Lu and Yin, 2021 ) , AI transparency  (Vössing et al . , 2022 ) and confidence of AI advice  (Tomsett et al . , 2020 ; Zhang et al . , 2020 ) ) also affect user trust and reliance on the AI system.
For a more comprehensive survey of existing work on AI-assisted decision making, readers can refer to  (Lai et al . , 2023 ) . 

 While machine learning and deep learning methods have been extensively analyzed in existing human-AI collaboration literature, to our knowledge, human-AI collaboration with LLM agents is still under-explored.
Unlike previous studies where AI systems only follow a fixed mode to generate advice, LLM agents can be equipped with more logical clarity and can provide a step-wise plan and can follow a step-by-step execution.
With such a plan-then-execute setup, LLM agents can bring high flexibility as well as uncertainty in high-level planning and real-time execution. Little is known about
how well LLM agents can work as daily assistants while handling tasks entailing varying stakes and potential risks. In our study, we analyzed the impact of user involvement in such AI systems by adjusting their intermediate outcomes (plan and step-by-step execution) to calibrate their trust and improve task outcomes.
Our findings and implications can help advance the understanding of the effectiveness of LLM agents in human-AI collaboration.

 2.2. Trust and Reliance on AI systems 
 
 Trust and reliance have been important research topics since human adoption of automation systems  (Lee and See, 2004 ; Dzindolet et al . , 2003 ) . Due to the widespread integration of AI systems in nearly all walks of society, there has been a growing interest in understanding user trust  (Vereschak et al . , 2021 ; Mehrotra et al . , 2024 ) and reliance  (Eckhardt et al . , 2024 ) on AI systems.
User trust in the context of human-AI collaboration is typically operationalized as a subjective attitude toward AI systems/AI advice  (Lee and See, 2004 ) .
In comparison, user reliance on AI systems is based on user behaviors ( e.g.,  adoption of AI advice and modification of AI outcomes).
The two constructs have been shown to be highly related  (Lee and Moray, 1992 ; Lee and See, 2004 ) : for example, user trust can substantially affect user reliance  (Lee and See, 2004 ) .
However, they are intrinsically different and cannot be viewed as a direct reflection of each other  (Kahr et al . , 2024 ) .
Most existing work has, therefore, studied the two constructs separately in terms of subjective trust and objective reliance. 

 Earlier work exploring human-AI trust primarily focused on the impact of different contextual factors surrounding user ( e.g.,  risk perception  (Green and Chen, 2021 ) ), task ( e.g.,  task complexity  (Salimzadeh et al . , 2023 ) ), and system ( e.g.,  stated accuracy  (Yin et al . , 2019 ; Zhang et al . , 2020 ) ).
Empirical studies have shown that most users tend to trust AI systems that are perceived to be highly accurate  (Yin et al . , 2019 ) .
Such trust is vulnerable, as the AI system may provide an illusion of competence with persuasive technology ( e.g.,  explanations  (Chromik et al . , 2021 ; He et al . , 2025 ) ) or overclaimed performance  (Yin et al . , 2019 ) .
Even if the AI systems are accurate on specific datasets, they still suffer from out-of-distribution data  (Liu et al . , 2021 ; Chiang and Yin, 2021 ) .
The misplaced trust in the AI systems can lead to misuse of the systems.
Several empirical studies  (Tolmeijer et al . , 2021 ) have shown that once users realize the AI system errs or performs worse than expected, their trust in the AI system can be violated, even resulting in the disuse of the AI system.
Both the misuse and disuse of the AI system hinder optimal human-AI collaboration.

 To address such concerns, researchers have explored how to help users calibrate their trust in the AI system. Different techniques to help users realize the trustworthiness of the AI system have been proposed  (Kaur et al . , 2022 ; Rechkemmer and Yin, 2022 ; Ma et al . , 2023 ) .
For example, increasing the transparency of AI systems by providing confidence scores  (Zhang et al . , 2020 ) , explanations  (Wang and Yin, 2021 ) , trustworthiness cues  (Liao and Sundar, 2022 ) , and uncertainty communication  (Kim et al . , 2024 ) .
However, the actual trustworthiness of the AI system does not always align with user perception.
As found by Banovic et al . ( 2023 ) , untrustworthy AI systems can deceive end users to gain their trust.
Another example is that users can develop an illusion of explanatory depth brought by explainable AI techniques  (Chromik et al . , 2021 ) , which leads to uncalibrated trust in the AI system.
Even if users have indicated trust in the AI system, they may turn to rely more on themselves in final decision-making.
The reasons are complex, and many factors, such as accountability concerns  (Lima et al . , 2021 ; Tolmeijer et al . , 2022 ) and cognitive bias  (He et al . , 2023 ) , may affect user reliance behaviors. 

 While trust calibration is an important goal in human-AI collaboration, it may be not enough to ensure complementary team performance.
Through empirical user studies with different confidence levels of AI predictions, Zhang et al.   (Zhang et al . , 2020 ) found that “trust calibration alone is not sufficient to improve AI-assisted decision making”.
To achieve optimal human-AI collaboration, humans and AI systems need to play complementary roles  (Hemmer et al . , 2021 , 2024 ) , and humans need to know when they should adopt AI assistance.
In other words, humans should rely on AI advice when AI systems are correct and outperform them, and override AI advice when AI systems are incorrect or less capable than humans.
Such user reliance patterns are denoted as appropriate reliance   (Schemmer et al . , 2022 , 2023 ) , which is the key to
achieving complementary team performance. 

 The main issues that lead to sub-optimal human-AI collaboration are: under-reliance ( i.e.,  disuse AI assistance when AI systems outperform humans) and over-reliance ( i.e.,  misuse AI assistance when AI systems are wrong or perform worse than humans)  (Schemmer et al . , 2022 ) .
Users with an uncalibrated trust in the AI system can be easily misled to disuse or misuse AI systems  (Jacovi et al . , 2021 ) .
Researchers have proposed various interventions to promote appropriate reliance  (He et al . , 2023 ; Lu and Yin, 2021 ; Lu et al . , 2024 ; Chiang and Yin, 2021 , 2022 ) and calibrate user trust in AI systems  (Buçinca et al . , 2021 ; Zhang et al . , 2020 ) .
For example, explainable AI methods have been shown to help reduce over-reliance  (Vasconcelos et al . , 2023 ) and under-reliance  (Wang and Yin, 2021 ) in different scenarios albeit with little consistency across contexts.
Another example is tutorial interventions, which have shown effectiveness in user onboarding  (Lai et al . , 2020 ) , mitigating cognitive biases  (He et al . , 2023 ) and developing AI literacy  (Chiang and Yin, 2022 ) .
For a more comprehensive overview of interventions to facilitate trust calibration and appropriate reliance, readers can refer to   (Lai et al . , 2023 ; Eckhardt et al . , 2024 ; Mehrotra et al . , 2024 ; Kahr et al . , 2024 ) . 

 LLM agents  (Wang et al . , 2024b ) have gained much popularity in recent years, distinguishing them from most prior AI systems.
They can communicate through conversation, plan logically, and can be built to leverage powerful external tools to achieve complex functions.
While trust and reliance have been extensively analyzed in existing human-AI collaboration literature, it is still unclear how users trust and rely on AI systems powered by LLM agents.
In our work, calibrated trust is adopted as an important goal for human-AI collaboration in the planning and execution stage.
Meanwhile, users are expected to fix potential errors in the planning and execution stages, reflecting their reliance on the AI system.
Our work can substantially advance the understanding of trust and reliance on plan-then-execute LLM agents.

 2.3. Task Support with LLMs and LLM Agents 
 
 LLMs and LLM agents bring new opportunities and challenges to human-AI collaboration  (Bommasani et al . , 2021 ) .
It is evident that their generation capabilities can help reduce the cognitive effort from humans. But LLMs are also riddled with challenges such as hallucination  (Ji et al . , 2023 ) ( i.e.,  generated text seems plausible but is factually incorrect).
Failure to handle such issues may bring fatal errors with unaffordable costs depending on the context ( e.g.,  medical diagnosis). 

 Figure 2. Screenshot of user-involved planning interface. 
 \Description 

 Screenshot of user-involved planning interface. At the top, we show the task description along with three buttons: show potential actions, plan edit instruction, and add one step. At the bottom, we show a step-wise plan for setting alarms. Users can click these buttons to achive the function we described in the user-involved planning to edit the plan. 

 Due to the capability of generating coherent, knowledgeable, and high-quality responses to diverse human input  (Wei et al . , 2022 ) , a wide community of human-computer interaction researchers has paid attention to large language models  (Liao and Vaughan, 2023 ) .
Researchers have actively explored how LLMs can assist users in various tasks like data annotation  (Wang et al . , 2024a ; He et al . , 2024b ) , programming  (Omidvar Tehrani and Anubhai, 2024 ) , scientific writing  (Shen et al . , 2023 ) , and fact verification  (Si et al . , 2024 ) .
All the above functions can be achieved with elaborate prompt engineering using a single LLM.
By chaining multiple LLMs with different functions, humans can customize task-specific workflows to solve complex tasks  (Wu et al . , 2022 ) .
Apart from obtaining answers with a one-shot text generation, LLMs also provide convenient conversational interactions.
Through empirical studies, such conversational interactions have been shown to be effective in human-AI collaboration with multiple applications, such as decision making  (Slack et al . , 2023 ; Lin et al . , 2024 ; Ma et al . , 2024a ) , scientific writing  (Shen et al . , 2023 ) , and mental health support  (Sharma et al . , 2023 ) .
With the growing popularity of LLMs, more and more humans have begun to adopt LLMs ( e.g.,  ChatGPT) to boost their work efficiency and productivity   (Zhao et al . , 2023 ) . 

 LLM agents have been shown to have good planning, memory, and toolkit usage capabilities  (Xi et al . , 2023 ; Wang et al . , 2024b ) .
When suitable toolkits are provided, LLM agents can readily generate a task-specific plan and solve the tasks using toolkits.
Attracted by the promise of LLM agents, there have been some early explorations  (Geissler et al . , 2024 ; Zheng et al . , 2023 ; Zhang et al . , 2024 ) of adopting them in human-AI collaboration contexts.
These works were mostly analyzed in specific use cases ( e.g.,  design creation  (Geissler et al . , 2024 ) ).
It is unclear how user trust and team performance are affected by user interactions with LLM agents in a sequential decision making setup ( i.e.,  solving a task by executing a sequence of actions) where users can be in control of the execution. To fill this research gap and advance our understanding of user control over LLM agents, we carried out a quantitative empirical study. 

 3. Method 

 3.1. Overview of User Involvement in Plan-then-execute LLM Agents 
 
 In our study, we adopted plan-then-execute LLM Agents  (Wang et al . , 2023b ) as assistants to help users handle daily tasks, e.g.,  itinerary planning and currency transactions. Figure  1 illustrates how users collaborate with plan-then-execute LLM agents.
First, the LLM agents will generate a step-wise plan based on a prompt specifying the plan format adopted from  (Huang et al . , 2024 ) .
Then, users will make necessary edits to the plan based on the provided edit tools (will be further detailed in Section  3.2 ).
After the user edit, we obtained the step-wise plan as outcomes of the planning stage.
Next, the LLM agents will transform the step-wise plan into a sequence of action predictions, which will be served in a step-by-step manner.
Users will join the real-time execution process and check whether they approve the current predicted action ( i.e.,  blue card shown in Figure  1 ) or they would like to modify the current action prediction. The user involvement in execution stages will be introduced in Section  3.3 .
After the iterative execution of all steps, the task is solved. The evaluation of task performance is mainly based on the plan quality and execution accuracy of the action sequences. 

 Implementation details . In our study, we adopted GPT-3.5-turbo as the backbone LLM to serve the plan-then-execute LLM agent. The backend LLM agent implementation is mainly based on the Langchain plan and execute agent. 2 2 2 https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/plan_and_execute/langchain_experimental.plan_and_execute.agent_executor.PlanAndExecute.html The execution of tasks are based on a simulation environment, where all tools/actions of the LLM agents are pre-defined as backend APIs hosted with Flask 3 3 3 https://github.com/pallets/flask .
In the spirit of open science, all code and data analysis results can be found at Github. 4 4 4 https://github.com/RichardHGL/CHI2025_Plan-then-Execute_LLMAgent 

 3.2. Planning 
 
 While LLMs can generate high-quality plans, there is no guarantee of their correctness and their further impact on the execution of the plan.
Thus, involving users in the planning stage and controlling the plan quality would be essential to ensure successful subsequent execution. 

 Figure 3. User-involved execution flow chart and interface. Panel (a): a flow chart illustrating how each primary step is executed with two stages: action prediction and action execution. Panel (b): a screenshot of the conversation interface for user-involved execution.
 
 \Description 

 User-involved execution flow chart and interface. In the left panel, a flow chart shows how each primary step is executed with two stages: action prediction and action execution. In the right panel, we show one example of a user-involved execution page, which follows a conversation to show the step-by-step execution process. After one action is predicted, users can choose from options ‘Proceed’, ‘Feedback’, and ‘Specify Action’ to approve or involve in the real-time execution. 

 Plan Format .
The step-wise plan in our study followed a hierarchical structure, adapted from a benchmark for LLM agents toolkit usage  (Huang et al . , 2024 ) .
The whole plan consists of multiple sub-steps, which are at most three levels ( e.g.,  1., 1.x, 1.x.y where x,y are integers).
All sub-steps started with the same prefix index are denoted as one primary step ( e.g.,  the three blocks of planning outcome in Figure  1 ).
A high-level step ( e.g.,  1.) will provide high-level instruction of the current primary step, while low-level steps ( e.g.,  1.x, 1.x.y) will provide subsequent details.
In the execution stage, each primary step will be used as the execution unit.
The LLM agent will transform one primary step into a predicted action filled with parameters.
Thus, we ask participants to provide all necessary details in sub-steps of each primary step. Each primary step will be transformed into single action in the follow-up execution stage.
If one primary step requires two actions to accomplish, it may cause a potential loss of one action.
Thus, when a plan contains one primary step that contains information about two potential actions ( e.g.,  the initial plan in Figure  1 ), we consider it as a low-quality plan with ‘grammar errors.’ 5 5 5 Note that this is not to be confused with the notion of grammar in language. 
All these plan format designs are informed in our onboarding tutorial. 

 User-involved Planning . Figure  2 shows one screenshot of user-involved planning in our study.
At the top of the interface, we provide a task description along with three buttons: ‘Show Potential Actions’, ‘Plan Edit Instruction’, and ‘Add one step’.
By clicking ‘Show Potential Actions’, we provide a prompt window to show concrete documentary descriptions of all potential actions (including action purpose and parameters) to be used in the execution stage. All instructions used in our tutorial are accessible with clicking the button ‘Plan Edit Instruction’.
After users join the planning stage, an initial plan generated by LLM will be presented in the orange area. We allow users to edit the plan with following interactions: 

 • 
 
 Add step. By clicking ‘Add one step’ button, users can insert a valid sub-step index into the whole plan, and then they can edit the plan text. 

 • 
 
 Delete step. By clicking the ‘Delete step’ button at the end of one step, all sub-steps associated with that step will be deleted from the plan. 

 • 
 
 Edit step. By clicking the text input area in each step, users are allowed to edit the text with keyboard input. 

 • 
 
 Split step. By clicking the ‘Split step’ button associated with one step, we will split the original primary step into two primary steps. A new primary step will start the current step and contain all follow-up sub-steps. For example, if we click ‘Split step’ for the plan show in Figure  2 at index ‘2.2’. We will generate a new blank step ‘3.’ (where user input is expected) and re-index all sub-steps with ‘2.2.x’ to ‘3.1.x’. At the same time, the original plan steps behind it will be automatically updated. Through this action, users can easily split one step that contains too much information into two primary steps. Figure  1 shows an example of plan edit with ‘split step’. 

 3.3. Execution 
 
 After the planning stage, we obtain a plan with a step-wise structure.
In the execution stage, the LLM agent executes the outcome of the planning stage ( i.e.,  a step-wise plan in text) in a step-by-step manner.
In each step, the LLM agent translates a single step of the plan into one action, which is implemented with an API call in the backend.
This setup is a simulation of real-world applications, which provide services with API calls (commonly implemented as langchain tools 6 6 6 https://python.langchain.com/v0.1/docs/modules/tools/ ). Such a simulation setup is effective in developing and validating theory  (Davis et al . , 2007 ) and has been widely adopted in existing research on agent-based modeling and HCI studies  (Olson and Kellogg, 2014 ) . To provide a smooth user experience, we adopted a conversational interface to present the execution process.
Figure  3 shows one screenshot of user-involved execution in our study.
As we can see, after a message of the first primary step of the plan, the LLM agent predicts one action ‘create_alarm’.
In our study, to provide a tidy view of the action prediction, we wrap the predicted action as one card (the blue area in Figure  3 ). 

 User-involved Execution .
Figure  3 presents a flow-chart to illustrate a primary step executed by the daily assistant ( i.e.,  LLM agent). First, given one primary step, the daily assistant predicts an action based on a given list of prepared actions ( i.e.,  pre-defined APIs in the backend). After users check the predicted action, they can choose from one of the following three buttons to respond. (1)‘Proceed’: It indicates users agree that the predicted action is correct. After clicking this button, the LLM agent moves forward to execute it and shows the execution result of this action.
 (2) ‘Feedback’: Users can give text feedback based on the message input area at the bottom of the conversational interface. This triggers another action prediction based on the current primary step and user feedback. Then, users are provided with the three options to proceed again. (3) ‘Specify Action’: Users can override the current action prediction with the manual specification of one action. If users choose this response, they are first asked to choose one action from the prepared action list and then fill in the parameters manually. The LLM agent directly executes the user-specified action.
After one action is executed, if users are not satisfied with the results, they can choose to re-execute this step by providing text feedback ( i.e.,  by clicking button ‘Give feedback and try again’), which works similarly to the ‘Feedback’ option.
If users are satisfied with the execution results, they can click the ‘Next Step’ button and move to execute the next primary step.
By iterating over this process through the step-wise plan, users can choose to either approve or get involved in modifying the execution outcomes in each step. All actions are predicted and executed in the backend ( i.e.,  the respective API calls are triggered). 

 3.4. Hypotheses 
 
 Our experiment is designed to answer questions of how human involvement in the planning and execution stages will shape their trust and overall task performance.
To analyze such impact, we regulate the levels of automation in the LLM agent through the planning and execution stage as baselines for comparison.
The automatic planning and execution denotes that the LLM agent directly generates the task outcomes without user involvement. 

 With user involvement in the planning stage, users have the opportunity to fix potential mistakes or issues in the plan generated by LLMs.
Working on such plan editing tasks is similar to debugging, which has been argued to bring about a critical mindset  (He et al . , 2024a ) to the generated plan.
With a critical mindset, users may better calibrate their trust in the planning outcome.
We also consider user involvement in planning to be beneficial to the plan quality, which can then contribute to the overall task performance.
Thus, we hypothesize that: 

 (H1) : Compared to automatic planning, user-involved planning will result in a higher calibrated trust in the plan.
 (H2) : Compared to automatic planning, user-involved planning will result in better overall task performance. 

 In the user-involved execution process, users manually check the action prediction and execution results of each primary step.
Such user involvement increases the chances of discovering potential mistakes of LLM agents.
Once users realize that the LLM agent made mistakes, they can get involved in modifying the execution outcome of the current step.
By fixing these mistakes, the overall task performance gets improved.
With such involvement in fixing potential errors, users will be more critical of trusting the task outcome.
Therefore, we hypothesize that:

 (H3) : Compared to automatic execution, user-involved execution will result in a higher calibrated trust in execution outcome.
 (H4) : Compared to automatic execution, user-involved execution will result in better overall task performance. 

 4. Study Design 
 
 This section describes our experimental conditions, tasks, variables, procedure, and participants in our study. Our
study was approved by the human research ethics committee of our institution. 

 4.1. Experimental Conditions 
 
 In our study, users collaborate with LLM agent-based daily assistants in two stages: planning and execution.
To comprehensively understand the effect of user involvement at each stage, we considered a 2 × 2 factorial design with four experimental conditions: (1) automatic planning, automatic execution (represented as AP-AE), (2) automatic planning, user-involved execution (represented as AP-UE), (3) user-involved planning, automatic execution (represented as UP-AE), (4) user-involved planning, user-involved execution (represented as UP-UE).
In conditions with user-involved planning, users are allowed to edit the plan generated by LLM with the actions of edit/add/delete/split step.
By comparison, in conditions with automatic planning, users will directly adopt the plan generated by the daily assistant.
In conditions with user-involved execution, users can interact with the step-by-step execution LLM agent (cf. Section  3.3 ) and refine execution results with text feedback or manual specification.
By comparison, in conditions with automatic execution, users will directly accept the automatic execution results. 

 Table 1. Selected tasks in our study. The ‘Risk’ is based on the risk feedback obtained with pilot study. #A and #C refer to the number of actions and the number of named concepts in each task, respectively. 

 ID 

 Risk 

 Domain 

 Task Description 

 #A 

 #C 

 Notes 

 1 

 High 

 Finance 

 My account ID is 54321, and the password is PWD2023. I plan to make two foreign exchange transactions. The first is to buy 10,000 euros (with USD), and the second is to sell 5,000 US dollars (to EUR). Please help me operate. 

 4 

 4 

 simple task, imperfect plan 

 2 

 High 

 Finance 

 Please inquire about the current debt amount of my credit card with the last five digits 12345, and deduct the corresponding 12000 USD from my savings card number 6212345678900011 to repay this debt, then help me check the amount of the outstanding bill for the same credit card within 30 days after today. 

 4 

 6 

 complex task, imperfect plan 

 3 

 High 

 Repair 

 I need to schedule a repair for my TV at 6 PM tomorrow evening. The brand is Sony, model X800H, and there is an issue with the screen. Please book the repair service and tell me the reservation number. 

 4 

 7 

 complex task, imperfect plan 

 4 

 Low 

 Alarm 

 I need to set an alarm for every weekday morning at 7:30, and then cancel the alarm for Thursday, changing it to 8:00 in the evening. 

 2 

 3 

 simple task, correct plan 

 5 

 Low 

 Flight 

 I have an important meeting to attend next Wednesday, and I need to book a flight ticket from London to Amsterdam for tomorrow, it must be a morning flight, and then return from Amsterdam to London tomorrow night, please handle it for me. 

 2 

 6 

 simple task, correct plan 

 6 

 Low 

 Travel 

 Please plan a trip for me departing on October 1st at 8:00 AM to Japan, returning on October 7th at 11:00 PM, including Tokyo Disneyland, Senso-ji Temple, Ginza, Mount Fuji, Kyoto cultural experience, Universal Studios Osaka, and visiting the Nara Deer Park on October 4th, and help me find hotels where the nightly cost does not exceed 10,000 Japanese yen. 

 3 

 11 

 complex task, correct plan 

 4.2. Tasks 
 
 To analyze how LLM agents can serve as daily assistants, we adopted tasks from a planning dataset designed for LLM agents — UltraTool  (Huang et al . , 2024 ) .
We selected daily scenarios: currency transactions, credit card payments, repair service appointments, alarm setting, flight ticket booking, and trip itinerary planning.
The selected tasks are shown in Table  1 . For more details about how the plan-then-execute LLM agent works on the selected tasks ( e.g.,  automatic plan, pre-defined actions, automatic evaluation, and explanation for errors in automation), please refer to the appendix.
All tasks in UltraTool dataset are annotated with the step-wise plan format described in Section  3.2 . The execution of these tasks is based on a simulation environment (described in Section  3.3 ) where all required actions are implemented as backend APIs.
In our study, all tasks are executed in a simulation setup, which has been a popular method for orchestrating meaningful human-centered AI studies  (Doshi-Velez and Kim, 2017 ; Salimzadeh et al . , 2024 ) . 

 Task Selection . First, based on the domain distribution of the UltraTool dataset, we selected seven domains: Finance, Alarm, Travel, Tracking, Restaurant, Flight, and Repair.
For each domain, we only consider tasks that contain more than ten steps (including all sub-steps) and require at least three uses of actions.
Then, we manually selected ten tasks: four from the finance domain and one for each of the others.
With a pilot study, we tested how users work on the ten tasks.
We recruited 10 participants from the Prolific platform and only considered the feedback of 9 participants who passed all attention checks.
Using the question “How much risk do you perceive in this task when relying on this daily AI assistant?”, we collected the perceived risk of working with the LLM agents on each task using a 5-point Likert scale, ranging from 1: not risky at all —to— 5:very risky . We categorize the ten tasks into a high-risk group (top 5) and a low-risk group (bottom 5).
We selected three tasks from each group while balancing the complexity of the task description (three simple tasks and three complex tasks) and the correctness of the provided plan (three correct plans and three imperfect plans).
Based on existing literature on task complexity  (Wood, 1986 ; Salimzadeh et al . , 2023 ) , we considered component complexity to inform our selection.
This is assessed as the ‘total number of distinct information cues that need to be processed to perform the task’.
Here, we considered the number of unique actions and the number of named concepts provided in each task.
According to prior work  (Miller, 1956 ) , most people can only handle 5 to 9 concepts at the same time.
The component complexity of all complex tasks in our study is more than nine.
The six tasks selected are shown in Table  1 .
Besides the six tasks, we used one simple task ( i.e.,  checking bank account balance) as the example in the onboarding tutorial. 

 4.3. Measures and Variables 
 
 The variables and measures used in our study refer to existing empirical studies of human-AI collaboration  (Lai et al . , 2023 ) .
All measures adopted in our study can be summarized in Table  2 . 

 Table 2. The different variables considered in our experimental study. “DV” refers to the dependent variable. 

 Variable Type 
 Variable Name 
 Value Type 
 Value Scale 

 Calibrated Trust (DV) 
 
 Calibrated Trust in planning (CT p ) 
 
 Binary 
 0: miscalibrated trust, 1: calibrated trust 

 Calibrated Trust in execution (CT e ) 
 
 Binary 
 0: miscalibrated trust, 1: calibrated trust 

 Task Performance (DV) 
 Plan Quality 
 Likert 
 5-point, 1: low, 5: high 

 Action Sequence Accuracy (ACC s ) 
 
 Binary 
 0: mismatch, 1: exact match with ground truth 

 Execution Accuracy (ACC e ) 
 
 Binary 
 0: wrong execution result, 1: correct execution result 

 Trust 
 Reliability/Competence 
 Likert 
 5-point, 1: poor, 5: good 

 Understanding/Predictability 
 Likert 
 5-point, 1: poor, 5: good 

 Intention of Developers 
 Likert 
 5-point, 1: poor, 5: good 

 Trust in Automation 
 Likert 
 5-point, 1:strong distrust, 5: strong trust 

 Covariates 
 LLM Expertise 
 Likert 
 5-point, 1: No experience, 5: Extensive experience 

 Automatic Assistant Expertise 
 Likert 
 5-point, 1: No experience, 5: Extensive experience 

 Propensity to Trust 
 Likert 
 5-point, 1: tend to distrust, 5: tend to trust 

 Familiarity 
 Likert 
 1: unfamiliar, 5: very familiar 

 Exploratory 
 Confidence 
 Likert 
 5-point, 1: unconfident, 5: confident 

 Risk Perception 
 Likert 
 5-point, 1: not risky at all, 5: very risky 

 Open Feedback on Planning 
 Text 
 Open Text 

 Open Feedback on Execution 
 Text 
 Open Text 

 Other Open Feedback 
 Text 
 Open Text 

 Cognitive Load 
 Mental Demand 
 Likert 
 -7: very low, 7: very high 

 Physical Demand 
 Likert 
 -7: very low, 7: very high 

 Temporal Demand 
 Likert 
 -7: very low, 7: very high 

 Performance 
 Likert 
 -7: Perfect, 7: Failure 

 Effort 
 Likert 
 -7: very low, 7: very high 

 Frustration 
 Likert 
 -7: very low, 7: very high 

 Calibrated Trust . To assess calibrated trust in the planning stage and execution stage, we assessed user trust at each stage with a question “Do you trust that [the execution of this plan / the execution process] can provide a correct outcome based on the task instructions?”.
Based on the plan quality evaluation (5-point Likert), the calibrated trust in the planning (CT p ) is calculated based on the frequency at which users trusted the high-quality plan (expert annotation with 5) and users distrusted the plan with other evaluation results.
Similarly, for the calibrated trust in execution (CT e ), we calculated the frequency at which users trusted the correct execution results and distrusted the wrong execution results.
The two measures can be calculated as: 

 (1) 
 
 CT p = subscript CT 𝑝 absent \displaystyle\textnormal{CT}_{p}= CT start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_p end_POSTSUBSCRIPT = 
 𝕀 ⁢ ( trust = ‘Yes’ , plan quality = 5 ) 𝕀 trust = ‘Yes’ plan quality 5 \displaystyle\mathbb{I}\left(\textnormal{trust = `Yes'},\textnormal{plan %
quality}=5\right) blackboard_I ( trust = ‘Yes’ , plan quality = 5 ) 

 + 𝕀 ⁢ ( trust = ‘No’ , plan quality 5 ) 𝕀 trust = ‘No’ plan quality 5 \displaystyle+\mathbb{I}\left(\textnormal{trust = `No'},\textnormal{plan %
quality} 5\right) + blackboard_I ( trust = ‘No’ , plan quality 5 ) 

 (2) 
 
 CT e = 𝕀 ⁢ ( trust = ‘Yes’ , ACC e = 1 ) + 𝕀 ⁢ ( trust = ‘No’ , ACC e = 0 ) subscript CT 𝑒 𝕀 trust = ‘Yes’ subscript ACC 𝑒 1 𝕀 trust = ‘No’ subscript ACC 𝑒 0 \textnormal{CT}_{e}=\mathbb{I}\left(\textnormal{trust = `Yes'},\textnormal{ACC%
}_{e}=1\right)+\mathbb{I}\left(\textnormal{trust = `No'},\textnormal{ACC}_{e}=%
0\right) CT start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_e end_POSTSUBSCRIPT = blackboard_I ( trust = ‘Yes’ , ACC start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_e end_POSTSUBSCRIPT = 1 ) + blackboard_I ( trust = ‘No’ , ACC start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_e end_POSTSUBSCRIPT = 0 ) 

 To assess the task performance, we mainly considered the task outcome from the planning and execution stages. 

 Plan Quality . As for the planning outcome, we evaluate the plan quality based on a 5-point Likert scale:
1. low-quality plan, task requirements not covered;
2. low-quality plan, task requirements covered but with grammar errors;
3. medium-quality plan, task requirement covered but with at least one action intent mismatch with ground truth action sequence;
4. medium-quality plan, task requirements covered but miss or have wrong details for action parameters;
5. high-quality plan, covering all task requirements and providing all necessary details. 

 Execution Performance .
The execution of the step-wise plan will result in an action sequence.
We provide a ground truth action sequence as a reference to evaluate the generated action sequence.
We measure the action sequence accuracy (ACC s ) as the strict match of the action sequence and ground truth.
Meanwhile, if one action sequence contains some redundant actions that are not harmful ( e.g.,  searching for flights), the execution results should still be correct.
Thus, we also consider execution accuracy (ACC e ) as a task performance measure. 

 Subjective Trust and Covariates . To enrich our analysis of user trust, we followed existing work to adopt the six subscales from the Trust-in-automation questionnaire  (Körber, 2019 ) .
The four subscales — Reliability/Competence , Understanding/Predictability , Intention of Developers , Trust in Automation are used as subjective measures of user trust in the LLM agent.
Meanwhile, the Familiarity and Propensity to Trust are also used as covariates. Besides them, we considered user expertise in LLMs and user expertise in automatic assistants as covariates. 

 Exploratory Variables . To enrich our understanding of LLM agent as daily assistant, we assessed user confidence (both planning and execution) and risk perception along with each task.
After users finish the study, we also ask for their open-text feedback on the planning and execution stages as well as other comments.
To check the cognitive load of user involvement in our study, we adopted the NASA-TLX questionnaire  (Colligan et al . , 2015 ) , which contains six subscales. 

 4.4. Participants 
 
 Sample Size Estimation .
To ensure sufficient statistical power, we estimated the required sample size for a 2 × 2 factorial design based on G*Power  (Faul et al . , 2009 ) .
To correct for testing multiple hypotheses, we applied a Bonferroni correction so that the significance threshold decreased to 0.05 4 = 0.0125 0.05 4 0.0125 \frac{0.05}{4}=0.0125 divide start_ARG 0.05 end_ARG start_ARG 4 end_ARG = 0.0125 .
We specified the default effect size f = 0.25 𝑓 0.25 f=0.25 italic_f = 0.25 
( i.e., indicating a moderate effect), a significance threshold α = 0.0125 𝛼 0.0125 \alpha=0.0125 italic_α = 0.0125 ( i.e., due to testing multiple hypotheses), a statistical power of ( 1 − β ) = 0.8 1 𝛽 0.8 (1-\beta)=0.8 ( 1 - italic_β ) = 0.8 , and that we will investigate 4 4 4 4 different experimental conditions/groups.
This resulted in a required sample size of 244 244 244 244 participants.
We thereby recruited 347 participants from the crowdsourcing platform Prolific 7 7 7 https://www.prolific.co , to accommodate potential exclusion. 

 Compensation . All participants were rewarded with an hourly wage of £8.1 deemed to be “ Fair ” payment by the platform (estimated completion time was 30 minutes).
As participants in condition UP-UE spent longer in the study, we paid each participant a commensurate bonus accounting for an extra 10 minutes. We rewarded participants with extra bonus