# FULL TEXT — Fully Autonomous AI Agents Should Not be Developed

https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.02649v3

Fully Autonomous AI Agents Should Not be Developed 

 1 Introduction 
 
 2 Background 
 
 2.1 A Brief History of Artificial Agents 
 2.2 Current Landscape of Agentic Systems 

 3 Definitions 
 
 3.1 On AI Agents 
 3.2 On Agency 

 4 AI Agent Levels 
 
 5 Values Embedded in Agentic Systems 
 
 5.1 Methodology 
 5.2 Note on Base Models and System Complexity 
 
 5.3 Ethical analysis 
 
 5.3.1 Value: Accuracy 
 5.3.2 Value: Assistiveness 
 5.3.3 Value: Efficiency 
 5.3.4 Value: Equity 
 5.3.5 Value: Flexibility 
 5.3.6 Value: Humanlikeness 
 5.3.7 Value: Privacy 
 5.3.8 Value: Safety 
 5.3.9 Value: Security 
 5.3.10 Value: Trust 

 5.4 Discussion 

 6 Conclusion: Where do we go from here? 
 7 Acknowledgements 
 A Details on the Working Agent Definition for this Project 
 B Agent Definitions 
 C Agent functionalities 
 
 D Agent Values - Continued 
 
 D.0.1 Value: Consistency 
 D.0.2 Value: Relevance 
 D.0.3 Value: Sustainability 
 D.0.4 Value: Truthfulness 

 E Extended Methodology 
 F Value Mapping 
 G Example AI Agent Systems 
 H Example 2024 Articles Motivating AI Agents 

 Fully Autonomous AI Agents Should Not be Developed 

 Margaret Mitchell

 Avijit Ghosh

 Alexandra Sasha Luccioni

 Giada Pistilli

 Abstract 
 We argue that fully autonomous AI agents should not be developed . In support of this position, we build from prior scientific literature and current product marketing to detail the ethical values at play in the use of AI agents, documenting trade-offs in potential benefits and risks. Our analysis reveals that risks to people increase with the autonomy of a system: The more control a user cedes to an AI agent, the more risks to people arise. Particularly concerning are risks associated with the most extreme form of full autonomy , where the lack of human constraints leads to severe risks impacting multiple human values. 
 
 Machine Learning, ICML

 1 Introduction 
 
 The sudden, rapid advancement of Large Language Model (LLM) capabilities – from writing fluent sentences to achieving increasingly high accuracy on benchmark datasets – has led AI developers and businesses alike to look towards what comes next.
The tail end of 2024 saw “AI agents”, autonomous goal-directed systems, begin to be motivated and deployed as the next big advancement in AI technology. 1 1 1 A selection of examples is provided in Appendix   H . 

 Many recent AI agents are constructed by integrating LLMs into larger, multi-functional systems, capable of carrying out a variety of tasks to achieve goals. A foundational premise of this emerging paradigm is that computer programs need not be constrained to actions explicitly defined by a human operator; rather, systems can autonomously combine and execute multiple tasks without direct human involvement. This transition marks a fundamental shift towards systems capable of creating context-specific plans in previously unspecified environments. 

 To provide conceptual clarity on the benefits and risks of this powerful technology, we review recent AI agent products and research along two primary dimensions: 

 1. 
 
 What it means for something to be an “AI agent”. 

 2. 
 
 Ethical considerations of increased autonomy. 

 Our review suggests that AI agents may be understood on a sliding scale of autonomy, where risks outweigh benefits for systems at the upper end ( full autonomy ). This research complements previous work motivating the need to anticipate risks in agent behavior (Chan et al., 2023 ) , providing a value-based characterization of AI agent risks as well as benefits as their autonomy is increased. Particularly concerning are safety risks ( Section   5.3.8 ) – which include loss of human life – and privacy and security risks ( Section   5.3.7 , Section   5.3.9 ). Compounding these issues is the risk of misplaced trust ( Section   5.3.10 ), which enables a cascade of further harms. For example, “hijacking”, wherein an agent is instructed by a malicious third party to exfiltrate confidential information, can propagate and multiply harms as the stolen information is used to compromise a user’s public reputation, financial stability, or to identify additional people as targets of attack (U.S. AI Safety Institute, 2025 ) . 

 Given the foreseeable benefits and risks, we argue fully autonomous AI agents – and in particular the most advanced form of this, where systems are capable of writing and executing their own code beyond predefined constraints – should not be developed . Even with constraints defined, complete freedom for code creation and execution enables the potential to override human control, realizing some of the worst harms described in Section   5 . In contrast, semi-autonomous systems, which retain some level of human control, offer a more favorable risk-benefit profile, depending on the degree of autonomy, the complexity of tasks assigned, and the nature of human involvement. 

 2 Background 

 2.1 A Brief History of Artificial Agents 
 
 The idea of humans being assisted by artificial autonomous systems can be found throughout human history. Ancient mythology describes Cadmus (ca. 2000 BCE), who planted dragon teeth that turned into soldiers. Aristotle (ca. 350 BCE) speculated that automata could replace human slavery: “There is only one condition in which we can imagine managers not needing subordinates, and masters not needing slaves. This condition would be that each instrument could do its own work, at the word of command or by intelligent anticipation ” (Aristotle, 1999 ) . An early precursor to artificial agents was created by Ctesibius of Alexandria (ca. 300 BCE), who created an artificial automatic self-regulatory system: A water clock that that maintained a constant flow rate (Pollio, 1914 ) . This demonstrated that it was possible to create a system that could modify its own behavior in response to changes in its environment, previously believed to be limited to living things (Russell Norvig, 2020 ) . 

 More recently, writing on autonomous systems in the form of automata highlights the kinds of risks we discuss here. The famous “Three Laws of Robotics” (Asimov, 1942 ) state: 

 1. 
 
 A robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm. 
 
 2. 
 
 A robot must obey the orders given it by human beings except where such orders would conflict with the First Law. 
 
 3. 
 
 A robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Law. 

 The way such concepts concretely translated to computer software remained elusive until the late 1900s, when advances in hardware and computer functionality catalyzed excitement on AI agents as an imminent breakthrough (Sargent, 1992 ; Guilfoyle Warner, 1994 ; Wooldridge Jennings, 1995 ; Nwana Ndumu, 1999 ) . A particular form of AI agent became extensively used in reinforcement learning because it enabled the implementation of separate goals and objective functions for independent actors within the same action space  (Tan, 1993 ; Littman, 1994 ) , which allowed the development of new methods and approaches for exploration and optimization  (Busoniu et al., 2008 ) . 

 2.2 Current Landscape of Agentic Systems 
 
 Over the past few years, work on AI agents has broadened the range of functionality that computer systems can provide while requiring less input from users. Notably, the rapid increase in the deployment and usage of LLM-based systems has been followed by concentrated work on AI agents that leverage these systems, with minimal lag time between research developments and product release. Systems can now complete tasks that
previously required human interaction with multiple different people and programs,
e.g., organizing meetings 2 2 2 E.g., Lindy , Zapier , NinjaTech , Attri or creating personalized social media posts. 3 3 3 E.g., HubSpot (Further example applications are provided in Appendix   G .) 

 In the physical world, there have also been significant advances in embodied autonomous AI systems. Autonomous vehicles represent one of the more visible applications, 4 4 4 E.g., Waymo (Hawkins, 2025 ) with systems capable of perceiving 5 5 5 With digital sensors, distinct from human perception their environment and navigating without human input (Van Brummelen et al., 2018 ) . The development of autonomous robots has similarly expanded, with advancements in “general” autonomous robots (Brohan et al., 2023 ) as well as domain-specific applications such as industrial manufacturing (Müller et al., 2021 ) and healthcare (Haidegger, 2019 ) , among others. LLMs, which underlie many recent digital AI systems (discussed further in Section   3 ), are increasingly being integrated into embodied systems to advance system autonomy, used to generate tasks (Ahn et al., 2024 ) , aid in decision-making (Cui et al., 2024b ) , provide interpretability (Xu et al., 2024 ; Cai et al., 2025 ) and assist with planning (Cui et al., 2024a ) . 

 Perhaps most controversially, autonomous weapons systems are a dedicated area of development (Etzioni Etzioni, 2017 ; Longpre et al., 2022 ) . 6 6 6 Also see documenting news articles, e.g., Meaker ( 2023 ); Vincent ( 2024 ); Everett ( 2025 ); Field ( 2025 ); Robins-Early ( 2024 ) . These systems, capable of engaging targets without full human control, raise significant ethical questions about accountabilityand safety that extend beyond those of purely digital agents (Cummings, 2017 ; Chavannes et al., 2020 ; Bloch et al., 2020 ; Schwarz, 2021 ; Gaeta, 2023 ; Simmons-Edler et al., 2024 ) . Harms of human goal misalignment may be further compounded when human control is ceded (Kierans et al., 2025 ) . 

 Agentic Level 

 Description 

 Term 

 Example Code 

 Who’s in Control? 

 ✩✩✩✩ 

 Model has no impact on program flow 

 Simple processor 

 print_llm_output(llm_response) 

 Human 

 ★✩✩✩ 

 Model determines basic program flow 

 Router 

 if llm_decision(): path_a() else: path_b() 

 How functions are done; When 

 ★★✩✩ 

 Model determines how functions are executed 

 Tool caller 

 run_function(llm_chosen_tool, llm_chosen_args) 

 What functions are done; How 

 ★★★✩ 

 Model controls iteration and program continuation 

 Multi-step agent 

 while should_continue(): execute_next_step() 

 What functions exist;     Which to do, when, how 

 ★★★★ 

 Model creates executes new code 

 Fully autonomous agent 

 create_code(user_request); execute() 

 System 

 Table 1: Levels of AI Agent: Different systems can be characterized along a spectrum of autonomy, with levels marking significant changes in ability and control. They can also be combined in “multiagent systems,” where one agent workflow triggers another, or where multiple agents work collectively toward a goal. Levels adapted from (Roucher et al., 2024 ) . 

 3 Definitions 

 3.1 On AI Agents 
 
 Analyzing potential benefits and risks of AI agents requires understanding what an AI agent is, yet definitions and descriptions vary greatly (see Appendix   B ), and the term “agent” is currently used in the technology sector for products ranging from single-step prompt-and-response systems 7 7 7 E.g., Spataro ( 2024 ) to multi-step customer support systems. 8 8 8 E.g., as described by Lindy in their AI Customer Support page. Notably, several recent definitions assert the use of LLMs, a specification we do not adopt (further discussed in Appendix   A ). 

 A commonality across AI agent descriptions is that they act with some level of autonomy : given a high-level goal and an environment in which it can be pursued, AI agents can identify steps toward the goal without direct human instruction.
 (Huang et al., 2022 ; Yao et al., 2022 ; Pan et al., 2024 ; World Economic Forum, 2024 ) . For example, an ideal AI agent could respond to a high-level request such as “help me write a great paper about AI agents” by independently breaking this task down into steps for retrieving highly-cited academic papers about AI agents from the internet and creating an outline
informed by the content it retrieved.
In work on the related concept of Artificial General Intelligence (AGI), proposed trajectories of increased autonomy stipulate that AI agents occupy a single level, where they are fully autonomous (Morris et al., 2024 ) or simply (semi-)autonomous (Metz, 2024 ) . 

 Lacking a crisp single consensus definition on what an AI agent is, we propose the following working definition as a grounding for the text to follow, designing the definition to be as precise as possible without relying on vague or anthropomorphized language, yet general enough to apply to the rich diversity of systems referred to as “AI agents”: 

 Computer software systems capable of creating context-specific plans in non-deterministic environments. 

 Appendix   A further unpacks the meaning of this definition. 

 Recently introduced AI agents are built on ML models, many specifically using LLMs to drive their actions, which is a relatively new approach for computer software execution. Aside from this difference, today’s AI agents share similarities with those described in the past and, in some cases, realize previous ideas of what agents might be like (Wooldridge Jennings, 1995 ) : taking steps autonomously, navigating social expectations, and appropriately balancing reactive and proactive actions. 

 3.2 On Agency 
 
 The concept of “agency” is central to debates about autonomous AI systems, yet its meaning and implications remain philosophically contested. In general terms, an agent is understood as an entity with capacity to act (Anscombe, 1957 ; Davidson, 1963 ) . Applying this concept to artificial systems raises questions about the nature of those acts’ intentionality : the philosophical literature commonly understands agency through the lens of intentional action, where actions are explained in terms of the agent’s mental states (e.g., beliefs, desires) and their capacity to act for reasons
 (Davidson, 1963 ; Goldman, 1970 ) , but artificially intelligent agents are not known to have mental states as historically discussed. This suggests that AI agents lack the fundamental characteristics of genuine agency (Frankfurt, 1971 ; Bratman, 1987 ; Velleman, 1992 ) . This has two primary ramifications for this work: (1) the increased risk we note with increasing agentic levels is not counter-balanced by common philosophical underpinnings that might motivate the benefits of agency; (2) we contextualize AI agents using the concept of “autonomy”, and center the concept of “agent”, rather than agency, in recognizing agentic levels. 

 4 AI Agent Levels 
 
 AI agents may be said to be more or less autonomous (or agentic) along a sliding scale. Most writing on AI agents does not make such a distinction, which has contributed to recent confusion in both technical and public discourse about what AI agents are and what they are capable of (Lambert, 2024 ) . Addressing this issue, a proposal of different gradations of “AI agent” has recently been put forward by multiple researchers (e.g., Kapoor et al. ( 2024 ); Ng ( 2024 ); Greyling ( 2024 ); Lambert ( 2024 ); Roucher et al. ( 2024 ) ,
without consensus on the specifics of each level. Drawing from these ideas and descriptions of AI agents, we propose the leveled AI agent scale in Table   1 , highlighting technical implementation details and the distribution of control. 9 9 9 This approach to levelling is one way of categorizing; for a classic categorization with consensus, see Russell and Norvig  ( 1995 ) . 

 Our proposed agentic levels correspond to decreasing human influence: A reduction of explicit instructions from users and system-specific programming from developers. Conversely, AI agents have more control over how they operate and what they can do. This is a critical aspect of the AI agent scale to understand in order to inform how agents might be developed for the better: The more autonomous the system, the more we cede human control . 

 Action surface options: The spaces (digital or analog) where an agent can operate. 
 Adaptability: The extent to which a system can update its actions based on new information or changes in context. 
 Number: Single-agent or multi-agent, meeting needs of users by working together, in sequence, or in parallel. 
 Personalization: The extent to which an agent uses a user’s data to provide user-specific unique content. 
 Personification: The extent to which an agent is designed to be like a specific person or group of people. 
 Proactivity: The amount of goal-directed behavior that a system can take without direct specification from a user. 
 Reactivity: Extent to which a system can respond to changes in its environment in a timely fashion. 
 Request format options: The formats an agent uses for input (e.g., code, natural language). 
 Versatility: Diversity of possible agent actions, including: 
 
 • 
 
 Domain specificity: How many domains agent can operate in (e.g., email, calendars, news). 
 
 • 
 
 Interoperability : Extent to which agent can exchange information and services
with other programs. 
 
 • 
 
 Task specificity: How many types of tasks agent may perform (e.g., scheduling, summarizing). 
 
 • 
 
 Modality specificity: How many modalities agent can operate in (e.g., text, speech, video, images, forms, code). 

 Table 2: AI Agent functionalities. Further detail in Appendix   C . 

 5 Values Embedded in Agentic Systems 

 5.1 Methodology 
 
 To examine the ethical implications of autonomy with respect to recent AI agent systems, we adopted a methodological approach in applied ethics (Shapiro et al., 1995 ; Anderson Anderson, 2011 ) wherein relevant values are identified for a given subject of interest, and positive and negative outcomes are considered with respect to each. Our investigation focused on how varying degrees of agent autonomy interact with value propositions in research and commercial implementations, yielding a value taxonomy with foreseeable benefits and risks. Extended details on our methodology are provided in Appendix   E . 

 5.2 Note on Base Models and System Complexity 
 
 Relevant to all values described below are two points: 

 1. 
 
 Many recent AI agents are based on LLMs, and some definitions hinge on the use of an LLM (e.g., Chase ( 2024 ); Schluntz Zhang ( 2024 ) ). Ethical considerations for this type of AI agent therefore subsume those for LLMs, such as the incorporation of discriminatory beliefs, unequal representation of different subpopulations, and hegemonic viewpoints. See previous work (e.g., Rudinger et al. ( 2018 ); Bender Gebru et al. ( 2021 ); Haltaufderheide Ranisch ( 2024 ) ) for more. Models in other modalities reflect similar issues, for example, in computer vision (Luccioni et al., 2023 ; Ghosh et al., 2025 ) and speech processing (Tatman, 2017 ; Michel et al., 2025 ) . 

 2. 
 
 Statistical models are not perfect when deployed in real-world contexts (Box, 1974 ; Perrow, 1984 ; Wolpert Macready, 1997 ; Mohri et al., 2018 ; Quiñonero Candela et al., 2022 ) , and modern AI agents are based on statistical models. Following our proposed levels, increased autonomy brings with it increased risk of compounded errors and cascading issues as the number and nature of potential steps expands. 10 10 10 Industry practitioners have recently provided concrete estimates of this effect (Patronus AI, 2025 ; Business Insider, 2025 ) . Similarly, the risk of unwanted outcomes increases with system speed and access – fully autonomous agents may act faster than humans can intervene, eroding control – as well as with increased system complexity (Amodei et al., 2016 ; Alenezi Zarour, 2020 ) ; to the extent that each level corresponds to increased system complexity, the risks of harmful outcomes increase with autonomy. 

 While we focus our ethical analysis on the behaviors of single agents, multi-agent systems introduce further complexities (Li et al., 2006 ) we leave for future work. 

 5.3 Ethical analysis 
 
 Ethical values concerning the use of AI agents interact with autonomy in different ways, mediated by context and application. The analysis provided below is not exhaustive; it presents a space-constrained subset of many possible contextually relevant considerations, 11 11 11 Further value analyses are provided in Appendix   D , and a mapping between expressed values and selected sources Appendix   F . with particular attention to recent public deployments. Specific examples are provided in footnotes throughout. A summary of the resultant value taxonomy is provided in Figure   1 . We provide this analysis as a starting point for further deliberation and as a resource to inform priorities in AI agent research and development. A discussion of key findings from this analysis and further implications is provided in Section   5.4 . 

 X Task Performance 

 Accuracy: 
 
 Number and type of checks 
 
 Error propagation 

 Assistiveness: 
 
 Support options, personalization 
 
 Persuasion, skill loss 

 Efficiency: 
 
 Task completion 
 
 Error detection complexity 

 Protection 

 ß 

 Safety: 
 
 Physical protection 
 
 Personal harm 

 Security: 
 
 Threat management 
 
 Breaching desired security 

 Privacy: 
 
 Safeguarding data 
 
 Unwanted exposure 

 User Interaction 

 Humanlikeness: 
 
 Usability 
 
 Manipulation 

 Trust: 
 
 Benefit and risk multiplier 

 Broader Impacts 

 : 

 Equity: 
 
 Improved in targeted contexts 
 
 Base model inequities propagate 

 Flexibility: 
 
 Beneficial capabilities 
 
 Avenues for harm 

 Figure 1: Selection of potential increased benefits and harms with respect to ethical values as AI agent autonomy increases. 

 5.3.1 Value: Accuracy 
 
 Accuracy refers to the ability of an AI agent to utilize appropriate processes and bring about correct outcomes. 12 12 12 As described by Du et al. ( 2024 ) , Kupershtein et al. ( 2024 ) , Kwartler et al. ( 2024 ) , Kapoor et al. ( 2024 ) , Myakala ( 2024 ) , IBM (Gutowska, 2024 ) , Microsoft (Levret, 2025 ) , Salesforce (Salesforce, 2024 ) . 

 Potential Benefit: Agents can provide checks on model errors by leveraging trusted data and processes (Du et al., 2024 ; Kupershtein et al., 2024 ; Kwartler et al., 2024 ) , increasing accuracy over isolated models. Following findings on models without autonomous capabilities, in some contexts agents may help to improve human accuracy (Barman et al., 2016 ) , or perform significantly better than humans according to relevant evaluation criteria, for example, for certain types of detection (Yoon et al., 2023 ) . Agents may also be more accurate at winning game moves, 13 13 13 E.g., AlphaZero (Silver et al., 2018 ) and when given many attempts to solve problems (Wijk et al., 2025 ) . 

 Risk: Many foreseeable risks stem from the compounding effects of model inaccuracies, particularly in autonomous settings where cascading errors propagate across multiple action surfaces. For example, systems can integrate code that breaks critical systems (Sharwood, 2025 ) ; inappropriately share private information publicly (He et al., 2025 ) ; make significantly damaging financial mistakes (Popper, 2012 ) ; and disproportionately fail for some populations in life-critical decisions (Cross et al., 2024 ) . Subsequent action taken based on these errors can amplify their impact, further intensified from inappropriate trust ( Section   5.3.10 ) and degradation of human oversight capable of identifying and correcting failures in real time ( Section   5.3.2 ). 

 Application to agentic levels: It may be possible to increase accuracy when autonomy brings more verification, checks, and balances. Yet the corresponding diminished human counterbalances can create conditions where errors are difficult to diagnose or rectify, and subsequent harms more easily proliferate through interconnected systems.

 5.3.2 Value: Assistiveness 
 
 Assistiveness refers to the ability of an AI agent to complete tasks that help a user reach their end goal. 14 14 14 ServiceNow ( 2025 ); Salesforce ( 2024 ); EY ( 2025 ); Microsoft ( 2025a ); Lindy ( 2025 ); Whiting ( 2024 ) . Some organizations (e.g., IBM (IBM, 2025 ) , Workday (Pham, 2025 ) ) distinguish AI Assistants (reactive) from AI Agents (proactive). 

 Potential Benefit: Agents may augment capabilities, such as an agent for people with hand mobility issues or low vision that can complete tasks online in response to simple language commands (Deng et al., 2023 ) . Agents may help to improve users’ positive impact within their organizations and with customers 15 15 15 E.g., as described for generative AI by Brynjolfsson et al. ( 2023 ) , and a motivation for Moveworks ( 2025 ); Leena AI ( 2025 ) . or increase their public reach, 16 16 16 E.g., Omneky ( 2025 ); Ocoya ( 2025 ) and commercial sources speak to how assistance offered by AI agents increases user freedom and opportunity. 17 17 17 E.g., PwC ( 2025a ); Salesforce ( 2024 ); Ray ( 2024 ) 

 Risk: One of the “ironies of automation” (Bainbridge, 1983 ) is that increasing automation leads users to lose competence in rare but critical tasks because they lose practice in the relevant domain. This effect has recently begun to be documented for deployed AI applications (Ahmad, 2025 ; Gerlich, 2025 ) . Users also tend to over-trust assistive automation even when it’s fallible, a tendency known as automation bias (Goddard et al., 2012 ; Holbrook et al., 2024 ) . (Also see “trust” in Section   5.3.10 .) Further complicating the issue, assistive use where AI agents supplement workers comes up against the possibility of supplanting people, decreasing oversight while increasing the risk of inaccuracy ( Section   5.3.1 ), and contributing to job loss and economic inequalities between those creating agents and those replaced by them (Frank et al., 2025 ; Agrawal et al., 2022 ) . 

 Application to agentic levels: Each increasing AI agent level provides for more assistance as the agent requires less input from the developer or user and can access more action surfaces. With this comes human overreliance, degradation of critical skills, and difficulty in appropriate oversight, increasing the risk of unwanted outcomes.

 5.3.3 Value: Efficiency 
 
 Efficiency refers to how AI agents help users to complete more tasks more quickly, serving as an additional actor. 18 18 18 PwC ( 2025a ); Ray ( 2024 ); Cetin ( 2024 ); Slack ( 2025b ) . 

 Potential Benefit: As commonly marketed, AI agents assist in delivering results more quickly, increasing productivity (Andrews et al., 2025 ) . They can free users to focus on spending more time pursuing activities they find more rewarding, such as creative tasks. 19 19 19 E.g., Ray ( 2024 ); Slack ( 2025a ); Hastings-Woodhouse ( 2024 ) 

 Risk: 
Given the relationship to inaccuracy ( Section   5.2 and Section   5.3.1 ), increased autonomy brings increased risk of inefficiency from the time needed to identify and fix errors of increasing magnitude and complexity. 

 Application to agentic levels: Benefits and risks relevant to efficiency are tied in part to the accuracy of the model(s) underlying an AI agent. Efficiency is therefore affected by agent level as it concerns increased system access, complexity, opacity, and the number of interacting errors. 

 5.3.4 Value: Equity 
 
 Equity refers to how AI agents foster an environment where people from different backgrounds are included. 20 20 20 As described by Bernardini et al. ( 2014 ); Nagarajan ( 2024 ); Kondra Zink ( 2025 ); Houtti et al. ( 2025 ); Çiçek Güven et al. ( 2025 ); Nixon et al. ( 2024 ); Equal Time ( 2025 ) . 

 Potential Benefit: AI agents can aid humans in being less exclusionary to one another, 21 21 21 E.g., Equal Time ( 2025 ); Nagarajan ( 2024 ); Kondra Zink ( 2025 ); Houtti et al. ( 2025 ) tracking indicators of bias, unfairness and othering in communications, and further offering solutions to address them. This can support well-being in groups with different backgrounds. Agents may also serve as assistive devices ( Section   5.3.2 ) for those with differing ability statuses, 22 22 22 E.g., Bernardini et al. ( 2014 ); Deng et al. ( 2023 ) expanding the potential for similar opportunities and outcomes. 

 Risk: While equity-focused applications may provide equity-specific benefit, there are a multitude of other AI agent applications without this focus. Similar to accuracy ( Section   5.3.1 ), inequities in the base model(s) risk further propagation and cascading effects as an agent has access to more actions surfaces and can make more decisions. 

 Application to agentic levels: Risks of inequity may potentially decrease with increased autonomy as AI agent applications focused specifically on promoting diversity, inclusion, and equity are better able to access resources and influence outcomes. At the same time, risks stemming from inequities inherent in AI agents’ underlying models increase as agents are given further control over human-critical systems. 

 5.3.5 Value: Flexibility 
 
 With flexibility we include the related concept of adaptability , referencing a foundational motivation within AI agent development of systems that can shape their behavior in dynamic and diverse environments. 23 23 23 As described by Maes ( 1993 ); Valiente et al. ( 2022 ); Park et al. ( 2024 ); Liu et al. ( 2023 ); Zhu ( 2023 ); Wang et al. ( 2024 ); Yee et al. ( 2024 ); Benioff ( 2024 ); Detweiler Flaningam ( 2024 ); Github ( 2025 ); Liang Tong ( 2025 ) . 

 Application to agentic levels: With increased autonomy comes the benefits and risks of the values that flexibility enables, including assistiveness ( Section   5.3.2 ), efficiency ( Section   5.3.3 ), equity ( Section   5.3.4 ), safety ( Section   5.3.8 ), security ( Section   5.3.9 ), privacy ( Section   5.3.7 ), and relevance ( Section   D.0.2 ). Similarly, the more flexibility an agent has to affect and be affected by systems, the greater the potential for benefit and harm. For example, increased access to computer systems and software increases the potential for an AI agent to identify vulnerabilities, and also increases the risk of integrating malicious code (Wen, 2024 ) ; flexibility can provide more assistive options and attack vectors. 24 24 24 Since initial submission of this preprint, real harm from the interaction of flexibility and cybersecurity has been documented by Anthropic ( 2025 ) . Notably, pervasive issues with accuracy ( Section   5.3.1 ), and the inability to guarantee appropriate outcomes, has led companies to refrain from full automation in directly consequential applications, such as in purchasing (Knight, 2024 ) and healthcare (Lindquist, 2025 ) . 

 5.3.6 Value: Humanlikeness 
 
 Humanlikeness refers to the extent to which an AI agent can be perceived as similar to a human. 25 25 25 As described by Alabed et al. ( 2022 ); Stanford HAI ( 2023 ); Salesforce ( 2024a ); Vander Elst et al. ( 2025 ); Gannotti ( 2025 ) . Even when humanlikeness is not explicitly designed, people have a tendency to anthropomorphize (ascribing humanlike traits to non-human entities) (Epley et al., 2007 ) , and to treat computer systems as if they were people (Nass et al., 1994 ; Reeves Nass, 1996 ) .
These predispositions can be amplified by AI systems through both the selection of training data and the interface design (Waytz et al., 2014 ) , such as by incorporating first-person voice, self-referential or mentalistic language (e.g., ‘I understand,’ ‘I decided’), retention of user details, naturalistic prosody, photorealistic avatars, and scripted social behaviors like greetings, apologies, and small talk. 

 Potential Benefit: A primary motivation for systems to mirror humanlike behavior is the positive effect it can have on user experience. Studies have consistently shown that interfaces designed to mimic different aspects of humanlikeness and “social presence” can make computer interactions easier (Short et al., 1976 ; Park et al., 2023 ) and friendlier (Janson, 2023 ) , increasing comfort, pleasure, and satisfaction (Xie et al., 2023 ; Janson, 2023 ) .
Some research has posited controversial potential benefits, such as that AI agent humanlikeness could be beneficial for companionship (Sidner et al., 2018 ) or useful for running simulations on how different subpopulations might respond in different situations (Park et al., 2024 ) . Outside of the domain of AI, anthropomorphisation has been shown to have some benefits, such as assisting in the retention and learning of new concepts (Blanchard Mcnincth, 1984 ; Dorion, 2011 ) ; such findings may be useful in aiding the development of humanlike AI agents for positive outcomes. 

 Risk: The positive feelings humanlikeness stimulates in users is not without corresponding risks. For example, humanlikeness stimulates empathy and willingness to comply (Araujo, 2018 ; Janson, 2023 ; Park et al., 2023 ; Keeling et al., 2010 ; Adam et al., 2021 ) , which can lead to harms described for “trust” ( Section   5.3.10 ), as well as lowered vigilance, increased emotional entanglement, vulnerability to persuasion, overreliance or dependence, and addiction. 26 26 26 E.g., Samuel ( 2024 ) These behaviors may further influence anti-social behavior 27 27 27 There is a related concern that AI agent social interaction may contribute to loneliness, but see (Morahan-Martin Schumacher, 2003 ; O’Day Heimberg, 2021 ) for nuances. and self-harm. 28 28 28 E.g., NPR ( 2024 ) The phenomenon of “uncanny valley” adds another layer of complexity: As agents become more humanlike but fall short of perfect human simulation, they can trigger feelings of unease, revulsion, or cognitive dissonance in users. Recent work also suggests that making AI humanlike might lead people to treat real humans more “mechanistically” (with less care and dehumanization) or blur boundaries of social norms (Kim McGill, 2025 ) . 

 Application to agentic levels: The phenomenon of perceived humanlikeness is possible at the most basic level of AI agent (e.g., a chatbot), meaning that associated benefits and harms emerge from systems without autonomy. The increased capabilities provided by autonomy can further amplify this effect, providing for closer alignment to user behavior and an expansion of the ways in which a user and an agent can interact – and what the agent can affect. When humanlike cues co-occur with autonomy, increased autonomy therefore acts as a risk multiplier: increased access and decreased human control compound the risks of misplaced trust ( Section   5.3.10 ) and further cascading harms. 

 5.3.7 Value: Privacy 
 
 Privacy refers to how many people may be able to access a user’s content, including their data and actions. 29 29 29 As described by Lim Shim ( 2022 ) , Bagdasarian et al. ( 2024 ) , Finch ( 2025 ) , Microsoft ( 2025b ) . 

 Potential Benefit: To the extent that AI agents can model individuals’ privacy preferences, increased autonomy associated with increased access across devices, platforms, and applications can allow agents to align a user’s privacy settings to their preferences throughout the digital space (Xu et al., 2025 ) . Agents can also be used to monitor outgoing communications, permissions, or network activity to alert users if sensitive data is being transmitted inappropriately (Yuan et al., 2025 ) . Agents might also provide a form of personal identity masking: Instead of a user being exposed, an agent could act as a proxy, obscuring identifying metadata like typing speed, dialect, or style (Finch, 2025 ) . AI agents may also offer some privacy in keeping transactions and tasks wholly confidential (aside from what is monitorable by the AI agent provider). Recent work has also shown how agents can be used to analyze privacy documentation to assist users in informed consent (Sun et al., 2025 ) . 

 Risk: For agents to work according to user expectations, the user may need to provide personal information such as where they are going, who they are meeting with, and what they are doing – divulging information that might otherwise not be shared, opening up security ( Section   5.3.9 ) and safety ( Section   5.3.8 ) risks. For the agent to be able to act on behalf of the user in a personalized way, it may also have access to information sources that can be used to isolate further privacy information (for example, from contact lists, calendars, etc.). Users can easily give up control of their data for convenience and efficiency (and are more likely to when trusting the agent); if there is a privacy breach, the interconnectivity of different content brought by the AI agent can exacerbate harms. For example, an AI agent with access to phone conversations and social media could share highly intimate information publicly without consent of those involved. Because disclosures in conversational settings are often involuntary or driven by social cues, privacy loss can occur without deliberate consent, and is hard to reverse once data is entangled in training or memory stores. 

 Application to agentic levels: The more people allow agents to move across digital surfaces, the more potential there is for convenience and increased privacy oversight, at the risk of privacy breaches outside of human control. As autonomy grows, privacy risk shifts from disclosure to execution: Agents may act on or propagate private information across systems (emails, calendars, codebases), multiplying the reach of a single overshare. 

 5.3.8 Value: Safety 
 
 The ethical value of safety encompasses multiple types, among them physical, psychological, reputational, informational, and financial. Physical safety of large swaths of the population is a primary concern in the development of Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) (Kreps et al., 2025 ) . 

 Potential Benefit: AI agents may enhance human safety by monitoring, predicting and directly addressing physical and digital risks. Robotic AI agents may help save people from bodily harm, such as agents capable of diffusing bombs, removing poisons, or operating in manufacturing or industrial settings that are hazardous environments for humans. They can also assist with preventing physical safety accidents and critical infrastructure failures, such as by monitoring for warning signs (Agarwal, 2025 ) or tracking human attention (Hu et al., 2022 ) with respect to obstacles, alerting users – or directly adjusting their movements – to avoid harm such as falling 30 30 30 E.g., in the case of elderly and child safety robotic agents (Zhao et al., 2023 ) . or colliding. 31 31 31 E.g., in the case of autonomous vehicles (Agarwal, 2025 ) . Conversational agents with the autonomy to interact outside of the chat window could also alert appropriate resources when a user may engage in violence, such as by self-harm or hurting others. 32 32 32 E.g., OpenAI ( 2025 ) . Further benefits intersect with security ( Section   5.3.9 ) and privacy ( Section   5.3.7 ), where systems can aid in keeping people, structures, and organizations safe from the effects of vulnerabilities and malicious actors. 

 Risk: Safety risks arise from multiple aspects of AI agent deployment, among them unpredictability , digital access , and a user’s malicious intent . 

 • 
 
 Unpredictability : The unpredictable nature of base models underlying AI agents, alongside the ability of AI agents to create action sequences that have not been previously specified by a person, means that even seemingly safe individual operations could combine in unforeseen harmful ways, creating new risks that are difficult to prevent. A similar phenomenon is described in the theory of Instrumental Convergence and the classic paperclip maximizer problem (Gans, 2018 ) . Further, unpredictability interacts with the effectiveness of guardrails: The way a guardrail is specified may inadvertently creates further problems in unanticipated ways, and humans may not predict all the ways an AI agent can design a process that overrides a given guardrail. If guardrails mitigate loss of human life, such as with autonomous surgeons or missile system operation, this is a severe (life-ending) risk. 

 • 
 
 Digital Access : Humanlike behavior alongside access to broad interfaces (“Action Surfaces” in Table   2 ), including GUIs and external applications, gives agents the ability to perform unsafe actions without setting off warning systems – such as by manipulating or deleting files, impersonating users on social media, using stored credit card information to make purchases, launching unsafe protocols, or creating privacy and security breaches. Still further safety risks emerge from AI agents’ ability to interact with multiple systems and the by-design lack of human oversight for each action. 

 • 
 
 Malicious intent : Human actors seeking to create harm can use agents to mask their identity (see “privacy” in Section   5.3.7 ) while broadening reach and personalizing content for specific individuals, further enabling harmful activities such as phishing campaigns, system hacking, or spreading disinformation at scale. 

 Application to agentic levels: Broadly construed, greater agent autonomy amplifies the scope and severity of potential safety harms: The goal of making agents more capable and efficient through expanded system access, more sophisticated action chains, and reduced human oversight brings with it increased risk along multiple safety dimensions, including physical, financial, digital, societal, and informational. Complicating this issue, human-defined safeguards to mitigate foreseeable issues are bounded by their initial specifications while the agent may generate novel behaviors or processes that operate beyond those predefined limits. 

 5.3.9 Value: Security 
 
 Security refers to protection from harmful outcomes. It encompasses protecting people, systems, organizations and data from malicious, unauthorized, or unintentionally problematic actions. 33 33 33 As described by DARPA ( 2016 ); Wen ( 2024 ); Finch ( 2025 ); Labs ( 2025 ); Microsoft ( 2025b ) . Benefits and risks associated with security overlap with those of safety ( Section   5.3.8 ), such as those concerning protective actions and digital access, and with those of privacy ( Section   5.3.7 ), such as in the handling sensitive information. 

 Potential Benefit: A key potential benefit of AI agents for security is the ability to monitor and respond to security threats, such as by identifying cybersecurity vulnerabilities and enacting solutions (DARPA, 2016 ; Wen, 2024 ) . Agents can also provide potential benefits for informational security, such as by protecting privacy ( Section   5.3.7 ) within dynamically changing environments in real-time. 

 Risk: AI agents present security challenges when handling sensitive data (such as customer or user information), particularly given corresponding safety risks ( Section   5.3.8 ), such as the ability to interact with or infiltrate multiple systems without detailed human oversight, and the potential for data leakage (Zharmagambetov et al., 2025 ) . Security risks also emerge from agents creating inappropriate solutions to solve problems, such as by disabling alerts (Beers Rushing, 2025 ) . Similar to “safety” ( Section   5.3.8 ) malicious use of AI agent systems can also create security harms, particularly when used to mask the actors’ identity, such as by accessing connected systems, stealing sensitive information, or conducting automated attacks at scale. 

 Application to agentic levels: In general, the greater the autonomy, the greater the attack surface and attack options. 34 34 34 Documented by Anthropic ( 2025 ) after submission of this work. 
However, different AI agent levels affect security differently: For the first four, developers maintain some control of the code the agent can access, providing a built-in ability to mitigate security outbreaks, e.g., by blocking communication with third parties. However, when an agent is able to create and execute new code (a fully autonomous agent), it’s capable of creating breaches unforeseen by developers. In the most extreme form of full autonomy – without guardrails – the corresponding security risk is clear. 

 5.3.10 Value: Trust 
 
 Recent AI agent writing generally does not motivate how agents benefit or harm trust, but rather, that systems should be constructed to be worthy of our trust,
shown to be safe ( Section   5.3.8 ), secure ( Section   5.3.9 ) and reliable. Seminal work in the past has warned about the risks of trusting automated systems (e.g., Bainbridge ( 1983 ) ) and has proposed corresponding methods for creating trustworthy systems (e.g., Maes ( 1994 ) ): work that is applicable to development today. We include this value here due to its historical significance in the evolution of AI agent development and its deep interconnection to how other values are manifested. 

 Multiple forces inflate trust, including: 

 • 
 
 Humanlike presentation (first-person voice, personas, and memory cue mind-perception and lower vigilance) (see Section   5.3.6 ). 

 • 
 
 Automation bias (the tendency to defer to a system even when it is fallible). 

 • 
 
 Apparent competence from frequent success (people over-weight the next output when the system was “mostly right” before). 

 Together, these factors produce inappropriate trust precisely where statistical models are prone to errors. 

 Application to agentic levels: Trust-related risks arise from limitations in the predictability and accuracy ( Section   5.3.1 ) of AI agents, and can be heightened by humanlikeness ( Section   5.3.6 ). These issues are exacerbated as agents gain greater flexibility ( Section   5.3.5 ) and system access, expanding potential harms to privacy ( Section   5.3.7 ), safety ( Section   5.3.8 ), and security ( Section   5.3.9 ). To the extent that increased autonomy is associated with broader action surfaces and reduced oversight, even small miscalibrations of trust at different levels of autonomy multiply into larger harm surfaces; conversely, trust calibration (e.g., through transparency and uncertainty cues) becomes more critical with each autonomy level. 

 5.4 Discussion 
 
 We have only scratched the surface of values at play in the use of AI agents, and how agent autonomy interacts with potential benefits and risks. This initial work suggests that base model(s) influence all outcomes, and increased autonomy enables more flexible and context-sensitive action while amplifying the magnitude of harms stemming from isolated system issues. Many benefits are tied to specific AI agent applications (e.g., privacy preservation, equity support), while risks increase with greater access, decreased and degraded oversight on agent actions, and malicious use. 

 In general, lower autonomy poses risks through perception and interactional cues (e.g., humanlikeness, over-trust, oversharing). Intermediate levels add execution risks as the agent carries out plans on the user’s behalf, at which point human-centered safeguards – such as those protecting privacy and security – are no longer governed by those with contextual understanding of their value. High-autonomy systems concentrate and compound these effects; foreseeing all necessary safeguards and providing appropriate oversight may not be possible in fully autonomous systems. 

 Concerns about potential negative ramifications of agent autonomy has motivated calls for human oversight of AI agents. 35 35 35 E.g., (Microsoft WorkLab, 2025 ; PwC, 2025b ; Salesforce, 2024 ) This work suggests that mechanisms for oversight should account for increased complications related to increased autonomy, including issues that arise from the interaction of autonomy and human oversight itself. 

 6 Conclusion: Where do we go from here? 
 
 The history of nuclear close calls provides a sobering lesson about the risks of ceding human control to autonomous systems. 36 36 36 False alarm: 1979 NORAD scare was one of several nuclear close calls - UPI For example, in 1980, computer systems falsely indicated over 2,000 Soviet missiles were heading toward North America. The error triggered emergency procedures: bomber crews rushed to their stations and command posts prepared for war. Only human cross-verification between different warning systems revealed the false alarm. Similar incidents can be found throughout history. 

 Such historical precedents are clearly linked to foreseeable benefits and risks of AI agents. We find no clear benefit of fully autonomous AI agents that can operate outside of human-defined constraints, but many foreseeable harms from ceding full human control. Looking forward, this suggests several critical directions: 

 1. 
 
 Adoption of a spectrum of AI agent autonomy: Recognizing the nature of autonomy and how it interacts with system implementations can help to highlight opportunities and associated risks aligned with different values. Further, clear distinctions between levels of agent autonomy can aid in task delegation and prioritization for governance and development ( Srikumar et al., ) . 

 2. 
 
 Human control mechanisms: Developing robust frameworks, both at the technical and the policy level (Cihon, 2024 ; World Economic Forum, 2024 ) can help support meaningful human oversight while preserving beneficial semi-autonomous functionality. This includes creating reliable override systems and establishing clear boundaries for agent operation. 

 3. 
 
 Safety guarantees: Creating new methods to constrain AI agent behavior within intended operating parameters, and to ensure that they cannot override human-specified constraints. 

 The development of AI agents is a critical inflection point in artificial intelligence. As history demonstrates, even well-engineered autonomous systems can make catastrophic errors from trivial causes. While increased autonomy can offer genuine benefits in specific contexts,
human judgment and contextual understanding remain essential, particularly for high-stakes decisions. The ability to access the environments an AI agent is operating in is essential, providing humans with the ability to say “no” when a system’s autonomy drives it well away from human values and goals. 

 7 Acknowledgements 
 
 We thank Bruna Trevelin, Orion Penner, and Aymeric Roucher for significant contributions to this piece. 

 References 

 Adam et al. (2021) 
 
Adam, M., Wessel, M., and Benlian, A.

 AI-based chatbots in customer service and their effects on user compliance.

 Electronic markets , 31(2):427–445, 2021.

 Agarwal (2025) 
 
Agarwal, A.

 Autonomous lookahead for early risk tracking (alert): AI-driven predictive simulation for safe and proactive driver intervention.

 In Applications of Machine Learning 2025 , volume 13606, pp. 427–444. SPIE, 2025.

 Agrawal et al. (2022) 
 
Agrawal, A., Gans, J., and Goldfarb, A.

 Power and prediction: The disruptive economics of artificial intelligence .

 Harvard Business Press, 2022.

 Ahmad (2025) 
 
Ahmad, O. F.

 Endoscopist deskilling risk after exposure to artificial intelligence in colonoscopy: a multicentre, observational study.

 The Lancet Gastroenterology Hepatology , 2025.

 Ahn et al. (2024) 
 
Ahn, M., Dwibedi, D., Finn, C., Arenas, M. G., Gopalakrishnan, K., Hausman, K., Ichter, B., Irpan, A., Joshi, N., Julian, R., Kirmani, S., Leal, I., Lee, E., Levine, S., Lu, Y., Leal, I., Maddineni, S., Rao, K., Sadigh, D., Sanketi, P., Sermanet, P., Vuong, Q., Welker, S., Xia, F., Xiao, T., Xu, P., Xu, S., and Xu, Z.

 Autort: Embodied foundation models for large scale orchestration of robotic agents.

 2024.

 Alabed et al. (2022) 
 
Alabed, A., Javornik, A., and Gregory-Smith, D.

 AI anthropomorphism and its effect on users’ self-congruence and self–AI integration: A theoretical framework and research agenda.

 Technological Forecasting and Social Change , 182:121786, 2022.

 Alenezi Zarour (2020) 
 
Alenezi, M. and Zarour, M.

 On the relationship between software complexity and security.

 CoRR , abs/2002.07135, 2020.

 Amodei et al. (2016) 
 
Amodei, D., Olah, C., Steinhardt, J., Christiano, P. F., Schulman, J., and Mané, D.

 Concrete problems in AI safety.

 CoRR , abs/1606.06565, 2016.

 Anderson Anderson (2011) 
 
Anderson, M. and Anderson, S. L. (eds.).

 Machine Ethics .

 Cambridge University Press, New York, 2011.

 Andrews et al. (2025) 
 
Andrews, P., Benhalloum, A., Bertran, G. M.-T., Bettini, M., Budhiraja, A., Cabral, R. S., Do, V., Froger, R., Garreau, E., Gaya, J.-B., et al.

 ARE: Scaling up agent environments and evaluations.

 2025.

 Anscombe (1957) 
 
Anscombe, G. E. M.

 Intention .

 Basil Blackwell, Oxford, 1957.

 Anthropic (2024) 
 
Anthropic.

 Claude 3.5 and computer use, 2024.

 URL https://www.anthropic.com/news/3-5-models-and-computer-use .

 Anthropic (2025) 
 
Anthropic.

 Threat intelligence report: August 2025, August 2025.

 URL https://www-cdn.anthropic.com/b2a76c6f6992465c09a6f2fce282f6c0cea8c200.pdf .

 Araujo (2018) 
 
Araujo, T.

 Living up to the chatbot hype: The influence of anthropomorphic design cues and communicative agency framing on conversational agent and company perceptions.

 Computers in human behavior , 85:183–189, 2018.

 Aristotle (1999) 
 
Aristotle.

 Politics , volume 1.

 Batoche Books, Kitchener, 1999.

 Asimov (1942) 
 
Asimov, I.

 Runaround.

 Astounding Science Fiction , 1942.

 Attri.ai (2025) 
 
Attri.ai.

 Elevate time management with AI-powered scheduling, 2025.

 URL https://attri.ai/ai-agents/scheduling-agent .

 Bagdasarian et al. (2024) 
 
Bagdasarian, E., Yi, R., Ghalebikesabi, S., Kairouz, P., Gruteser, M., Oh, S., Balle, B., and Ramage, D.

 Airgapagent: Protecting privacy-conscious conversational agents.

 CCS ’24: Proceedings of the 2024 on ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security , 2024.

 Bai et al. (2024) 
 
Bai, H., Zhou, Y., Cemri, M., Pan, J., Suhr, A., Levine, S., and Kumar, A.

 Digirl: Training in-the-wild device-control agents with autonomous reinforcement learning.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.11896 , 2024.

 Bainbridge (1983) 
 
Bainbridge, L.

 Ironies of automation.

 Automatica , 19(6):775–779, 1983.

 Barman et al. (2016) 
 
Barman, S., Pal, U., Sarfaraj, M., Biswas, B., Mahata, A., and Mandal, P.

 A complete literature review on financial fraud detection applying data mining techniques.

 International Journal of Trust Management in Computing and Communications , 3:336, 01 2016.

 doi: 10.1504/IJTMCC.2016.084561 .

 Beers Rushing (2025) 
 
Beers, K. and Rushing, C.

 AI control: How to make use of misbehaving AI agents, October 2025.

 URL https://cset.georgetown.edu/article/ai-control-how-to-make-use-of-misbehaving-ai-agents/ .

 Bender Gebru et al. (2021) 
 
Bender Gebru, E. M., Timnit, McMillan-Major, A., and Shmitchell, S.

 On the dangers of stochastic parrots: Can language models be too big?

 In Proceedings of the 2021 ACM conference on fairness, accountability, and tran