# FULL TEXT — SWEET-RL: Training Multi-Turn LLM Agents on Collaborative Reasoning Tasks

https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.15478v1

SWEET-RL: Training Multi-Turn LLM Agents on Collaborative Reasoning Tasks 

 1 Introduction 
 2 Related Work 
 
 3 Collaborative Agent Benchmark (ColBench) 
 
 3.1 Design Principles 
 3.2 Backend Programming Collaborations 
 3.3 Frontend Design Collaborations 

 4 SWEET-RL: RL with S tep- W is E E valuation from T raining-Time Information 
 
 4.1 Problem Setup 
 4.2 Learning turn-wise advantage functions 
 4.3 Optimizing the agent by turn-wise advantage 

 5 Experiments 
 
 5.1 Experimental Setup 
 5.2 Comparisons on ColBench 
 5.3 Comparing other algorithms with SWEET-RL 
 5.4 Analysis 

 6 Conclusion 
 A Hyperparameters 
 B Theoretical Justifications 
 C Prompts 
 D Qualitative Comparisons of Different Credit Assignment Methods 
 E Full Qualitative Examples 

 1]FAIR at Meta
2]UC Berkeley
 \contribution [†]Work done at Meta
 \contribution [*]Equal advising 
 
 SWEET-RL: Training Multi-Turn LLM Agents on Collaborative Reasoning Tasks 

 Yifei Zhou

 Song Jiang

 Yuandong Tian

 Jason Weston

 Sergey Levine

 Sainbayar Sukhbaatar

 Xian Li
 
 [
 
 [
 
 yifei_zhou@berkeley 

 (March 19, 2025) 
 
 Abstract 
 Large language model (LLM) agents need to perform multi-turn interactions in real-world tasks. However, existing multi-turn RL algorithms for optimizing LLM agents fail to perform effective credit assignment over multiple turns while leveraging the generalization capabilities of LLMs and it remains unclear how to develop such algorithms. To study this, we first introduce a new benchmark, ColBench, where an LLM agent interacts with a human collaborator over multiple turns to solve realistic tasks in backend programming and frontend design. Building on this benchmark, we propose a novel RL algorithm, SWEET-RL (RL with Step-WisE Evaluation from Training-time information), that uses a carefully designed optimization objective to train a critic model with access to additional training-time information. The critic provides step-level rewards for improving the policy model. Our experiments demonstrate that SWEET-RL achieves a 6% absolute improvement in success and win rates on ColBench compared to other state-of-the-art multi-turn RL algorithms, enabling Llama-3.1-8B to match or exceed the performance of GPT4-o in realistic collaborative content creation. 

 \correspondence 
 Yifei Zhou at 
 \code https://github.com/facebookresearch/sweet_rl 
 \data https://huggingface.co/datasets/facebook/collaborative_agent_bench 

 1 Introduction 
 
 Figure 1 : (Left) Overview of our ColBench including Backend Programming and Frontend Design that supports cheap and reliable evaluation of multi-turn RL algorithms for agents in realistic settings. (Right) The high-level motivation behind SWEET-RL that uses additional training-time information along with appropriate Bradley-Terry (BT) objective to perform effective credit assignment. 

 Large language models (LLMs) have the potential of serving as decision-making agents capable of executing complex tasks autonomously, such as navigating the web and controling devices  (Zhou et al., 2024a , b ; Xu et al., 2024 ; Gur et al., 2021 ; Bai et al., 2024 ) , writing and maintaining code bases  (Jimenez et al., 2024 ) , and serving as personal assistants  (Xie et al., 2024a ; Jiang et al., 2024 ) , thanks to advances in the reasoning and generalization capabilities of LLMs  (OpenAI, 2024 ; GeminiTeam, 2024 ; Llama3Team, 2024 ) . However, to achieve the best performance on tasks that involve making a sequence of decisions, the agent needs to directly optimize for the multi-turn objective of interest such as success rates, which is more challenging than only imitating the most probable action at each turn as learnt in the next-token-prediction pre-training objective. 

 While a natural approach to directly optimize for multi-turn objective is to apply successful algorithms from single-turn Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF)  (Ouyang et al., 2022 ; Ziegler et al., 2020 ; Christiano et al., 2023 ) , such as RAFT  (Dong et al., 2023 ) , DPO  (Rafailov et al., 2024b ) and PPO  (Schulman et al., 2017 ) , these methods do not perform explicit credit assignment across turns.
Consequently, they may suffer from high variance and poor sample complexity due to the long-horizon nature of complex sequential decision-making tasks  (Zhou et al., 2024c ) .
Another alternative is to apply value function learning methods, such as TD-learning  (Mnih et al., 2013 ; Zhou et al., 2024c ; Snell et al., 2023 ) . Yet that requires training a new task-specific value head on top of LLM representations, which may not generalize well with limited fine-tuning data ( Figure 3 ). As a result, it is still unclear what is the most effective multi-turn RL algorithm that fully takes advantage of the reasoning capabilities of LLMs for training general, capable, and goal-directed agents. 

 To begin to address this challenge, we first notice that a benchmark for validating multi-turn RL algorithms for realistic LLM agents is required to meet the following three criteria: 1) sufficient task diversity for RL training without overfitting, 2) sufficient task complexity that challenges the reasoning and generalization capability of agents, and 3) minimum engineering overhead for fast research prototyping. However, as shown in Table 1 , none of the existing benchmarks satisfy all of the three necessary criteria.
To address this gap, our first contribution in this work is to develop a benchmark, Collaborative Agent Benchmark (ColBench) , designed to support research on multi-turn RL algorithms for realistic LLM agent scenarios. Our benchmark focuses on the realistic domain of artifact creation, where the goal for agents is to interact with humans to produce a final artifact (e.g., code, web pages, or slides) that fulfills human expectations. To solve such tasks, the agent must act to understand the intent of the human collaborator and reason with the missing pieces, as only limited information is provided in each turn for complex and potentially multi-modal artifacts like code and web pages. To facilitate rapid iteration and cost-effective evaluation, we employ LLMs as human “simulators”, where we crucially also provide the ground-truth artifacts to ensure faithful simulations in their responses. For reliable evaluations, we have developed a series of functional evaluators that measure the similarity between the agent-produced artifact and the ground-truth. Examples of tasks in ColBench are shown in Figure 1 (left) and full trajectories in Appendix E . 

 For a multi-turn RL algorithm to perform effective credit assignments in such LLM agent settings, it needs to incorporate solutions to the following realistic challenges. Firstly, the agent is acting in a partially observable environment where some of the important task-relevant information is not directly revealed to the agent. In such cases, the agent needs to be properly awarded for information-seeking behaviors in the stochastic environment. Moreover, there is only limited amount of data available during fine-tuning for a large diverse set of tasks that may show up at test time. Therefore, the learning objective of the algorithm needs to effectively take advantage of the reasoning capabilities of LLMs for the best generalization performance. For the first challenge, we observe that additional training-time information, such as the final outcome and the reference solution, may be available during training. The knowledge of additional training-time information can offer a shortcut for credit assignments for an agent performing information-seeking behaviors without such knowledge. A natural approach to leveraging this training-time information is to train a value function that predicts the expected utility of each action as a scalar value. However, this introduces a fine-tuning objective that significantly differs from the next-token prediction pre-training objective of LLMs, which leads to inferior reasoning and generalization performance ( Figure 3 ). 

 Table 1: Comparisons between ColBench and existing benchmarks for multi-turn LLM agents. As shown in the table, no existing benchmarks satisfy all of the three criterions necessary for developing efficient RL algorithms for fine-tuning LLM agents: 1) sufficient task diversity for RL training without overfitting, 2) sufficient task complexity that challenges the reasoning and generalization capability of agents, and 3) minimum engineering overhead for fast research prototyping. 

 RL 
 Complex 
 Min 

 Training 
 Reasoning 
 Overhead 
 
 Web/Device-Control Agents 
 Yes 
 Yes 
 No 
 
 (Zhou et al., 2024a ; Xie et al., 2024b ) 
 
 SWEBench 
 Yes 
 Yes 
 No 
 
 (Jimenez et al., 2024 ; Pan et al., 2024 ) 
 
 Travel Planner (Xie et al., 2024a ) 
 No 
 Yes 
 Yes 
 
 LLF Benchmark (Cheng et al., 2023 ) 
 No 
 No 
 Yes 
 
 AgentBench (Liu et al., 2023 ) 
 No 
 Yes 
 Yes 
 
 Mint (Wang et al., 2024b ) 
 No 
 Yes 
 Yes 
 
 Dialop (Lin et al., 2024 ) 
 No 
 Yes 
 Yes 
 
 LMRL Gym (Abdulhai et al., 2023 ) 
 Yes 
 No 
 Yes 
 
 RL4VLM (Zhai et al., 2024 ) 
 Yes 
 No 
 Yes 
 
 ColBench (ours) 
 Yes 
 Yes 
 Yes 

 With these observations, the second contribution of this work is an easy-to-implement yet highly effective RL algorithm, SWEET-RL (RL with S tep- W is E E valuation from T raining-Time Information) as depicted in Figure 1 (right). SWEET-RL improves credit assignments by providing the critic with training-time information that is inaccessible to the actor.
Our novel turn-level critic takes advantage of this asymmetric observation spaces for the critic and actor. Furthermore, we propose directly learning the advantage function, which characterizes the effectiveness of each action at the current state, avoiding the need of first training a value function that predicts the expected utility of the current state and action. Finally, we also propose parameterizing the advantage function by the mean log probability of the action at each turn and training this advantage function through the Bradley-Terry objective at the trajectory level. We find such an objective aligns better with pre-trained LLMs compared to the common practice of training a value head on top of the hidden states of LLMs, leading to superior generalization results. In our experiments, we find that the use of asymmetric information during training and appropriate learning objectives result in a superior multi-turn agent on both realistic Backend Programming and Frontend Design tasks from ColBench, with 6% absolute success and win rates gains compared to other SOTA algorithms. As a result, the performance of Llama-3.1-8B  (Llama3Team, 2024 ) can match or even surpass the performance of SOTA proprietary models including GPT-4o and o1-mini  (OpenAI, 2024 ) . 

 2 Related Work 
 
 Benchmarks for LLM Agents. 
While many recent benchmarks have been proposed to evaluate the capabilities of LLM agents in various settings, such as software engineering  (Jimenez et al., 2024 ; Liu et al., 2023 ) , web navigation  (Zhou et al., 2024a ; Koh et al., 2024 ; Deng et al., 2023 ; Yao et al., 2023 ) , device control  (Rawles et al., 2023 , 2024 ; Xie et al., 2024b ) , and travel planning  (Xie et al., 2024a ) , most of them tend to focus on evaluation of state-of-the-art generalist LLMs without providing a research-friendly interactive environment and a set of training tasks to study multi-turn RL algorithm. While LMRL Gym  (Abdulhai et al., 2023 ) and RL4VLM  (Zhai et al., 2024 ) offers this flexibility for comparing different multi-turn RL algorithms, the task settings focus on narrower domains and do not require the model to have strong reasoning capabilities. As shown in Table 1 , there is no existing LLM agent benchmark that provides the flexibility for testing multi-turn RL algorithms on reasoning-intensive tasks with minimum engineering overhead. In contrast, ColBench is the first benchmark designed to support research efforts in multi-turn RL algorithms on reasoning-intensive tasks, focusing on the realistic domain of artifact creation with reliable functional verifiers. 

 Multi-turn RL algorithms for LLM Agents. 
Unlike single-turn scenarios such as single-turn preference optimization  (Christiano et al., 2023 ; Ziegler et al., 2020 ; Casper et al., 2023 ; Xu et al., 2023 ) where it suffices for LLMs to produce a single response without further interactions with the environment, multi-turn RL  (Zhou et al., 2024c ; Kumar et al., 2024 ; Abdulhai et al., 2023 ) captures realistic agent scenarios where LLM agents need to make a sequence of actions to complete the task, such as operating a unix terminal  (Liu et al., 2023 ) and navigating through the web  (Zhou et al., 2024a ) . While some early works directly applied successful methods from single-turn RL, such as REINFORCE  (Sutton et al., 1999 ; Wu and Hu, 2018 ) , DPO  (Xiong et al., 2024 ; Song et al., 2024 ) , and PPO  (Schulman et al., 2017 ; Szot et al., 2024 ) , they often suffer from high variance when the horizon gets longer, resulting in poor performance. While recent works have applied more advanced techniques from the deep RL literature such as Bellman bootstrapping  (Zhou et al., 2024c ; Snell et al., 2023 ) and Path Consistency  (Wang et al., 2024a ; Liu et al., 2024 ; Nachum et al., 2017 ) to reduce long-horizon variance, our work makes an important advancement to take advantage of the oft-neglected additional training-time information and make corresponding adjustments to the optimization objective for improved assignment. Finally, while some prior works apply an asymmetric actor-critic structure to perform sim-to-real transfer in robotics where the critic observes the latent state and the actor observes RGB inputs  (Pinto et al., 2017 ; Wilson and Hermans, 2020 ; Salter et al., 2019 ) , less has been studied in terms of how such techniques can be applied in reasoning-intensive LLM tasks. 

 Process reward models. The use of a step-wise critic resembles the notion of a “process reward model” (PRM) in the reasoning literature  (Lightman et al., 2023 ; Uesato et al., 2022 ) . PRMs evaluate the “correctness” of each reasoning step and can be trained from automated supervision  (Luo et al., 2024 ; Setlur et al., 2024 ; Yuan et al., 2024 ; Hwang et al., 2024 ) without costly human-annotated process labels. Once a PRM is trained, it can be used for searching with more test-time compute  (Snell et al., 2024 ; Yuan et al., 2024 ) or accelerating the explorations in on-policy RL  (Setlur et al., 2024 ; Shao et al., 2024 ; Lin et al., 2025 ) (i.e. when the policy is trained on the online collected trajectories by itself). In contrast, in our work, the step-wise critic is mainly used to perform credit assignment as an intermediate “reward proxy” to directly optimize the policy without the need to collect additional interaction data. This benefit is important in LLM agent tasks where collecting on-policy data involves expensive interactions with an external environment. 

 3 Collaborative Agent Benchmark (ColBench) 
 
 In this section, we first outline the foundational design principles of our ColBench to address challenges in developing multi-turn RL algorithms for LLM agents, followed by a detailed explanation of the two specific tasks: Backend Programming and Frontend Design.

 3.1 Design Principles 
 
 (1) Sufficient task complexity that challenges the rea-
soning and generalization capability of agents. As the ultimate goal is to enable the LLM agents to complete tasks on our behalf in the real world, where the agents need to address complicated challenges in out-of-distribution scenarios, it is essential that the benchmark reflects such realistic reasoning and generalization challenges. To achieve this, ColBench is designed to align with realistic artifact creation tasks, where the objective of collaboration is to produce tangible outputs such as code or web pages. In order to do well, it is necessary for agents to dive deep into the structure of the code and nuanced differences in visual design for unseen requests and a potentially sub-optimal collaborator. 

 (2) Minimum overhead for fast research prototyping. To achieve this, we ground each collaboration task with the goal to re-create the exact same product as the reference artifact. In this way, the human collaborator can be easily simulated by an LLM with access to the reference artifact to faithfully answer the uncertainties from the LLM agent. Furthermore, the presence of a reference artifact allows ColBench to employ objective and functional evaluation metrics that assess the similarity between the final collaborative product and the reference artifact. As a result, the only requirement needed for setting up ColBench is API access for some LLM calls and some Python packages for running code and rendering HTML web pages. Although in real-world scenarios the human collaborator might only have a general idea of the desired final product, having access to a clear reference artifact is a reasonable assumption that significantly enhances reliability. 

 (3) Sufficient task diversity for RL training without
overfitting. As the best LLMs are often trained on a huge amount of data, it is essential that our benchmark contains enough tasks to understand the scalability of different multi-turn RL algorithms while at the same time ensuring the reliability of simulation and evaluation. Therefore, we designed ColBench to be highly scalable, with more than 10k different procedurally-generated tasks, which also can be easily expanded as needed by incorporating more existing artifacts such as code and web pages. The difficulty of ColBench can be easily adjusted
by simply creating more collaboration tasks with more complicated code bases and web pages.

 Next, we will describe detailed setups of ColBench, including Backend Programming and Frontend Design. 

 3.2 Backend Programming Collaborations 
 
 Task description. In this task, the agent is required to collaborate with the human simulator to write a custom Python function (up to 50 lines). In the beginning of the collaboration, the agent is provided with a high-level description and the signature of the function. However, many concrete details, such as what conditions should be considered and what to do at edge cases, are not provided, and the agent has to reason and decide what clarifications are needed from the human simulator. The human simulator will provide a brief explanation in natural language to each clarification question based on the reference code visible only to the human simulator, but it will not write code. The interactions are limited to 10 back-and-forth rounds between the agent and the human simulator. The interaction ends either when the agent has decided to give the final solution or the maximum number of rounds has been reached. The success of the agent is evaluated by 10 hidden unit tests for each function for 0/1 reward only at the end of each collaboration. 

 Data generation. Python functions, high-level descriptions, and unit tests are generated by prompting Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct  (Llama3Team, 2024 ) to extract a python function as inspired by an Internet excerpt from DCLM  (Li et al., 2024 ) . Only the tasks where the generated python functions can pass their corresponding unit tests are kept. We generate 10k such tasks in the train set and 1k tasks in the test set where tasks in the test set are manually inspected by authors. 15k offline train trajectories are generated by zero-shot prompting Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct as agent and Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct as human simulator. 

 3.3 Frontend Design Collaborations 
 
 Task description. In this task, the agent is required to collaborate with the human simulator to design a web page by writing an HTML snippet (around 100 lines). At the beginning of the collaboration, the agent is provided with a high-level description of the web page. Again, many concrete details such as the layout and color palette of the web page are missing and only visible to the human simulator. At each round, the agent has a chance to write an HTML solution and it will be rendered by the web browser. The human simulator will be able to examine the rendered web page from the agent and the reference web page, then describe their differences to the agent. Similar to the backend programming collaboration, the interaction ends either when the agent has decided to give the final solution or the maximum number of 10 rounds has been reached. The performance of the agent is evaluated by the cosine similarity of CLIP  (Radford et al., 2021 ) embeddings between the agent solution and reference web page, the best metric found in prior works  (Si et al., 2024 ) for frontend design. It serves as a reward within the range of 0 to 1 only at the end of the collaboration. 

 Data generation. The tasks containing reference web pages and high-level descriptions are from WebSight  (Laurençon et al., 2024 ) . We include 10k such tasks for training and 500 for the test set. The test set tasks are manually inspected by the authors. We generate 6k offline train trajectories by zero-shot prompting Llama-3.1-8B as agent and Qwen2-VL-72B  (Yang et al., 2024 ) as human simulator. 

 4 SWEET-RL: RL with S tep- W is E E valuation from T raining-Time Information 
 
 To introduce our method, we will begin by first defining the terminology for multi-turn RL on ColBench. Then, we will motivate the two-stage training procedure of SWEET-RL for first training a step-wise critic with additional training-time information and using it as a per-step reward model to train the actor with careful algorithmic choices. An overview of the two-stage training procedure is presented in Figure 2 . 

 Figure 2 : textbfAn overview of the training procedure of SWEET-RL. At a high level, we first apply Bradley-Terry objective to directly train a step-wise advantage function with access to additional training-time information. Once the advantage function is trained, we perform policy improvement by using the advantage function as a reward model for each turn. 

 4.1 Problem Setup 
 
 We frame the problem of collaboration between humans and agents as a finite-horizon partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP) ℳ = { 𝒪 , 𝒞 , 𝒜 , 𝒯 , μ 1 , ℛ , N } ℳ 𝒪 𝒞 𝒜 𝒯 subscript 𝜇 1 ℛ 𝑁 \mathcal{M}=\{\mathcal{O},\mathcal{C},\mathcal{A},\mathcal{T},\mu_{1},\mathcal%
{R},N\} caligraphic_M = { caligraphic_O , caligraphic_C , caligraphic_A , caligraphic_T , italic_μ start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , caligraphic_R , italic_N } .
Here, 𝒪 𝒪 \mathcal{O} caligraphic_O and 𝒞 𝒞 \mathcal{C} caligraphic_C are the observable and hidden parts of the state space. In the beginning of each episode an initial instruction o 1 ∈ 𝒪 subscript 𝑜 1 𝒪 o_{1}\in\mathcal{O} italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ∈ caligraphic_O and some hidden training-time information c ∈ 𝒞 𝑐 𝒞 c\in\mathcal{C} italic_c ∈ caligraphic_C (e.g., the reference solution) are drawn from the initial state distribution μ 1 subscript 𝜇 1 \mu_{1} italic_μ start_POSTSUBSCRIPT 1 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT . The hidden training-time information c 𝑐 c italic_c remains unchanged during the episode. 

 At the t 𝑡 t italic_t -th turn, the observation o t subscript 𝑜 𝑡 o_{t} italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT for the agent includes all the interaction history, and the agent needs to take an action a t ∈ 𝒜 subscript 𝑎 𝑡 𝒜 a_{t}\in\mathcal{A} italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ∈ caligraphic_A by outputting a response consisting of tokens a t 1 : L superscript subscript 𝑎 𝑡 : 1 𝐿 a_{t}^{1:L} italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT 1 : italic_L end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT . After taking an action, the user will respond to the agent, and the new state for the agent (represented by the transition function 𝒯 𝒯 \mathcal{T} caligraphic_T ) is derived by appending the latest interaction to the interaction history. At each step, the agent has a chance to receive a scalar reward r ⁢ ( o t , a t , c ) ∈ ℛ 𝑟 subscript 𝑜 𝑡 subscript 𝑎 𝑡 𝑐 ℛ r(o_{t},a_{t},c)\in\mathcal{R} italic_r ( italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_c ) ∈ caligraphic_R . The episode ends either when the agent outputs a termination token or when a maximum number of t = N 𝑡 𝑁 t=N italic_t = italic_N rounds of interactions has been reached.
The objective of RL is to train a policy that can generate token sequences maximizing the cumulative rewards
 ∑ t = 1 N r ⁢ ( o t , a t , c ) superscript subscript 𝑡 1 𝑁 𝑟 subscript 𝑜 𝑡 subscript 𝑎 𝑡 𝑐 \sum_{t=1}^{N}r(o_{t},a_{t},c) ∑ start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t = 1 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT italic_N end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT italic_r ( italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_c ) 
throughout a rollout (we assume no reward decay for simplicity).
We consider the offline setting of learning from a past interaction dataset as online interactions with humans may be costly to obtain. 

 The Q-function for a policy π 𝜋 \pi italic_π represents the expected cumulative reward of a specific action at the current step, followed by adherence to policy π 𝜋 \pi italic_π :
 Q π ⁢ ( o t , a t , c ) = 𝔼 π ⁢ [ ∑ t ′ = t N r ⁢ ( o t ′ , a t ′ , c ) ] . superscript 𝑄 𝜋 subscript 𝑜 𝑡 subscript 𝑎 𝑡 𝑐 subscript 𝔼 𝜋 delimited-[] superscript subscript superscript 𝑡 ′ 𝑡 𝑁 𝑟 subscript 𝑜 superscript 𝑡 ′ subscript 𝑎 superscript 𝑡 ′ 𝑐 Q^{\pi}(o_{t},a_{t},c)=\mathbb{E}_{\pi}\left[\sum_{t^{\prime}=t}^{N}r(o_{t^{%
\prime}},a_{t^{\prime}},c)\right]. italic_Q start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT italic_π end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT ( italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_c ) = blackboard_E start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_π end_POSTSUBSCRIPT [ ∑ start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT ′ end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT = italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT italic_N end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT italic_r ( italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT ′ end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT ′ end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_c ) ] . 
The value function of π 𝜋 \pi italic_π , V π ⁢ ( o t , c ) superscript 𝑉 𝜋 subscript 𝑜 𝑡 𝑐 V^{\pi}(o_{t},c) italic_V start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT italic_π end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT ( italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_c ) , is defined as the expected Q-value, 𝔼 a t ∼ π ⁢ [ Q π ⁢ ( o t , a t , c ) ] subscript 𝔼 similar-to subscript 𝑎 𝑡 𝜋 delimited-[] superscript 𝑄 𝜋 subscript 𝑜 𝑡 subscript 𝑎 𝑡 𝑐 \mathbb{E}_{a_{t}\sim\pi}[Q^{\pi}(o_{t},a_{t},c)] blackboard_E start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ∼ italic_π end_POSTSUBSCRIPT [ italic_Q start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT italic_π end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT ( italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_c ) ] , where actions a t subscript 𝑎 𝑡 a_{t} italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT are sampled from π 𝜋 \pi italic_π . The advantage function A π ⁢ ( o t , a t , c ) superscript 𝐴 𝜋 subscript 𝑜 𝑡 subscript 𝑎 𝑡 𝑐 A^{\pi}(o_{t},a_{t},c) italic_A start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT italic_π end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT ( italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_c ) indicates the relative benefit of taking action a t subscript 𝑎 𝑡 a_{t} italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT in state ( o t , c ) subscript 𝑜 𝑡 𝑐 (o_{t},c) ( italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_c ) and is calculated as the difference between the Q-value and the state’s value under the policy: A π ⁢ ( o t , a t , c ) = Q π ⁢ ( o t , a t , c ) − V π ⁢ ( o t , c ) superscript 𝐴 𝜋 subscript 𝑜 𝑡 subscript 𝑎 𝑡 𝑐 superscript 𝑄 𝜋 subscript 𝑜 𝑡 subscript 𝑎 𝑡 𝑐 superscript 𝑉 𝜋 subscript 𝑜 𝑡 𝑐 A^{\pi}(o_{t},a_{t},c)=Q^{\pi}(o_{t},a_{t},c)-V^{\pi}(o_{t},c) italic_A start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT italic_π end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT ( italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_c ) = italic_Q start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT italic_π end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT ( italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_c ) - italic_V start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT italic_π end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT ( italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_c ) . We directly model the turn-wise advantage function A 𝐴 A italic_A using parameters θ 𝜃 \theta italic_θ , and use that advantage A θ subscript 𝐴 𝜃 A_{\theta} italic_A start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_θ end_POSTSUBSCRIPT to train the policy parameterized by ϕ italic-ϕ \phi italic_ϕ to generate tokens a t 1 : L superscript subscript 𝑎 𝑡 : 1 𝐿 a_{t}^{1:L} italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT 1 : italic_L end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT within each turn. 

 4.2 Learning turn-wise advantage functions 
 
 To perform explicit credit assignments in reasoning-intensive tasks,
some prior works have explored learning an explicit value function first and derive the advantage of each individual action from the learnt value function  (Bai et al., 2024 ; Zhou et al., 2024c ; Snell et al., 2023 ) . However, in our experiments we found that such value functions do not generalize well when only a limited number of samples for fine-tuning are available as shown in Section 5.4 .
We hypothesize this is because learning an accurate value function in reasoning-intensive tasks is itself a hard task and does not effectively take advantage of the reasoning and generalization capability of pre-trained LLMs. 

 Since the ultimate goal of performing credit assignment is to derive the advantages for each action which may be a easier task for LLMs compared to estimating the expected future returns, we propose to directly learn the advantage function for each turn-wise action a t subscript 𝑎 𝑡 a_{t} italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT . Inspired by the success of preference optimization in funetuning LLMs  (Christiano et al., 2023 ; Ziegler et al., 2020 ) , we propose to train the the turn-wise advantage function from preference pairs of trajectories.
Given two trajectories under the same task with additional training-time information c 𝑐 c italic_c , we label them chosen τ + superscript 𝜏 \tau^{+} italic_τ start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT + end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT and rejected τ − superscript 𝜏 \tau^{-} italic_τ start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT - end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT judged by their cumulative rewards. This allows us employ the Bradley-Terry objective  (Bradley and Terry, 1952 ; Rafailov et al., 2024a ) for fine-tuning 

 𝒥 BT = − log ⁡ [ σ ⁢ ( ∑ t β ⁢ r ⁢ ( o t + , a t + , c ) − ∑ t β ⁢ r ⁢ ( o t − , a t − , c ) ) ] , subscript 𝒥 BT 𝜎 subscript 𝑡 𝛽 𝑟 subscript superscript 𝑜 𝑡 subscript superscript 𝑎 𝑡 𝑐 subscript 𝑡 𝛽 𝑟 subscript superscript 𝑜 𝑡 subscript superscript 𝑎 𝑡 𝑐 \mathcal{J}_{\text{BT}}=-\log\left[\sigma\left(\sum_{t}\beta r(o^{+}_{t},a^{+}%
_{t},c)-\sum_{t}\beta r(o^{-}_{t},a^{-}_{t},c)\right)\right], caligraphic_J start_POSTSUBSCRIPT BT end_POSTSUBSCRIPT = - roman_log [ italic_σ ( ∑ start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_β italic_r ( italic_o start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT + end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_a start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT + end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_c ) - ∑ start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_β italic_r ( italic_o start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT - end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_a start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT - end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_c ) ) ] , 
 
 (1) 

 where o t + , a t + subscript superscript 𝑜 𝑡 subscript superscript 𝑎 𝑡 o^{+}_{t},a^{+}_{t} italic_o start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT + end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_a start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT + end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT and o t − , a t − subscript superscript 𝑜 𝑡 subscript superscript 𝑎 𝑡 o^{-}_{t},a^{-}_{t} italic_o start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT - end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_a start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT - end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT are from τ + superscript 𝜏 \tau^{+} italic_τ start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT + end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT and τ − superscript 𝜏 \tau^{-} italic_τ start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT - end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT respectively, and β 𝛽 \beta italic_β is a hyperparameter.
We can rewrite this objective using the advantage function: 

 𝒥 A ⁢ ( θ ) = − log ⁡ [ σ ⁢ ( ∑ t β ⁢ A θ ⁢ ( o t + , a t + , c ) − ∑ t β ⁢ A θ ⁢ ( o t − , a t − , c ) ) ] . subscript 𝒥 𝐴 𝜃 𝜎 subscript 𝑡 𝛽 subscript 𝐴 𝜃 subscript superscript 𝑜 𝑡 subscript superscript 𝑎 𝑡 𝑐 subscript 𝑡 𝛽 subscript 𝐴 𝜃 subscript superscript 𝑜 𝑡 subscript superscript 𝑎 𝑡 𝑐 \mathcal{J}_{A}(\theta)=-\log\left[\sigma\left(\sum_{t}\beta A_{\theta}(o^{+}_%
{t},a^{+}_{t},c)-\sum_{t}\beta A_{\theta}(o^{-}_{t},a^{-}_{t},c)\right)\right]. caligraphic_J start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_A end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ( italic_θ ) = - roman_log [ italic_σ ( ∑ start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_β italic_A start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_θ end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ( italic_o start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT + end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_a start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT + end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_c ) - ∑ start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_β italic_A start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_θ end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ( italic_o start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT - end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_a start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT - end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_c ) ) ] . 
 
 (2) 

 Intuitively, similar to the objective of single-turn RLHF to learn a high reward for each chosen response and a low reward for each rejected response, the effect of Equation 2 is to increase the advantage for each action in the chosen trajectory and lower the advantage for each action in the rejected trajectory. For completeness, we provide a theoretical derivation in Appendix B . To further align the learning objective with next-token-prediction pre-training, we parameterize the advantage function by re-purposing the existing language model head of the LLM: 

 A θ ⁢ ( o t , a t , h ) = 1 L ⁢ ∑ l = 1 L [ log ⁡ π θ ⁢ ( a t l | o t , a t 1 : l − 1 , c ) π ref ⁢ ( a t l | o t , a t 1 : l − 1 , c ) ] subscript 𝐴 𝜃 subscript 𝑜 𝑡 subscript 𝑎 𝑡 ℎ 1 𝐿 superscript subscript 𝑙 1 𝐿 delimited-[] subscript 𝜋 𝜃 conditional subscript superscript 𝑎 𝑙 𝑡 subscript 𝑜 𝑡 superscript subscript 𝑎 𝑡 : 1 𝑙 1 𝑐 subscript 𝜋 ref conditional subscript superscript 𝑎 𝑙 𝑡 subscript 𝑜 𝑡 superscript subscript 𝑎 𝑡 : 1 𝑙 1 𝑐 A_{\theta}(o_{t},a_{t},h)=\frac{1}{L}\sum_{l=1}^{L}\left[\log\frac{\pi_{\theta%
}(a^{l}_{t}|o_{t},a_{t}^{1:l-1},c)}{\pi_{\text{ref}}(a^{l}_{t}|o_{t},a_{t}^{1:%
l-1},c)}\right] italic_A start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_θ end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ( italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_h ) = divide start_ARG 1 end_ARG start_ARG italic_L end_ARG ∑ start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_l = 1 end_POSTSUBSCRIPT start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT italic_L end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT [ roman_log divide start_ARG italic_π start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_θ end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ( italic_a start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT italic_l end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT | italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT 1 : italic_l - 1 end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT , italic_c ) end_ARG start_ARG italic_π start_POSTSUBSCRIPT ref end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ( italic_a start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT italic_l end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT | italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , italic_a start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT 1 : italic_l - 1 end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT , italic_c ) end_ARG ] 
 
 (3) 

 where π θ subscript 𝜋 𝜃 \pi_{\theta} italic_π start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_θ end_POSTSUBSCRIPT is the LLM model that we train to act as the advantage function, while π ref subscript 𝜋 ref \pi_{\text{ref}} italic_π start_POSTSUBSCRIPT ref end_POSTSUBSCRIPT is a frozen initial seed model.
We find it important to include 1 L 1 𝐿 \frac{1}{L} divide start_ARG 1 end_ARG start_ARG italic_L end_ARG to normalize the advantage by the length of the response to stabilize training. 

 4.3 Optimizing the agent by turn-wise advantage 
 
 Our key observation is that while our final policy π ϕ subscript 𝜋 italic-ϕ \pi_{\phi} italic_π start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_ϕ end_POSTSUBSCRIPT cannot condition on the hidden information h ℎ h italic_h , such information is available during training time.
Since the advantage LLM π θ subscript 𝜋 𝜃 \pi_{\theta} italic_π start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_θ end_POSTSUBSCRIPT will only be used during training, it can take c 𝑐 c italic_c as input as in Equation 3 .
Intuitively, many realistic problems such as collaboration and math reasoning have some hidden training-time information like reference solutions. If the turn-wise advantage function has access to such training-time information, it should be in a better position to judge whether the action taken by the policy is on the right track.

 Therefore, we provide additional training-time information c 𝑐 c italic_c to the turn-wise advantage function while only the interaction history o t subscript 𝑜 𝑡 o_{t} italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT is provided to the policy, resulting in an asymmetric actor-critic structure. In principle, any successful algorithm from the RLHF literature can be used to optimize the per-turn policy π ϕ subscript 𝜋 italic-ϕ \pi_{\phi} italic_π start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_ϕ end_POSTSUBSCRIPT by treating the interaction histories as prompts and the turn-wise advantage function A θ subscript 𝐴 𝜃 A_{\theta} italic_A start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_θ end_POSTSUBSCRIPT as the reward model. In this stage of training the policy, no interaction from human collaborators is needed. 

 For simplicity we choose to use DPO  (Rafailov et al., 2024b ) for training. For each turn t 𝑡 t italic_t we first sample candidate actions from the current policy given interaction history o t subscript 𝑜 𝑡 o_{t} italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT , and rank them by the learnt turn-wise advantage function to obtain chosen and rejected actions.
We then optimize the policy for each turn using the standard DPO loss: 

 𝒥 π ⁢ ( ϕ ) = − log ⁡ σ ⁢ ( β ′ ⁢ log ⁡ π ϕ ⁢ ( a + | o t ) log ⁡ π ref ⁢ ( a + | o t ) − β ′ ⁢ log ⁡ π ϕ ⁢ ( a − | o t ) log ⁡ π ref ⁢ ( a − | o t ) ) . subscript 𝒥 𝜋 italic-ϕ 𝜎 superscript 𝛽 ′ subscript 𝜋 italic-ϕ conditional superscript 𝑎 subscript 𝑜 𝑡 subscript 𝜋 ref conditional superscript 𝑎 subscript 𝑜 𝑡 superscript 𝛽 ′ subscript 𝜋 italic-ϕ conditional superscript 𝑎 subscript 𝑜 𝑡 subscript 𝜋 ref conditional superscript 𝑎 subscript 𝑜 𝑡 \mathcal{J}_{\pi}(\phi)=-\log\sigma\left(\beta^{\prime}\frac{\log\pi_{\phi}(a^%
{+}|o_{t})}{\log\pi_{\text{ref}}(a^{+}|o_{t})}-\beta^{\prime}\frac{\log\pi_{%
\phi}(a^{-}|o_{t})}{\log\pi_{\text{ref}}(a^{-}|o_{t})}\right). caligraphic_J start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_π end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ( italic_ϕ ) = - roman_log italic_σ ( italic_β start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT ′ end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT divide start_ARG roman_log italic_π start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_ϕ end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ( italic_a start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT + end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT | italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ) end_ARG start_ARG roman_log italic_π start_POSTSUBSCRIPT ref end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ( italic_a start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT + end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT | italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ) end_ARG - italic_β start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT ′ end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT divide start_ARG roman_log italic_π start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_ϕ end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ( italic_a start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT - end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT | italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ) end_ARG start_ARG roman_log italic_π start_POSTSUBSCRIPT ref end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ( italic_a start_POSTSUPERSCRIPT - end_POSTSUPERSCRIPT | italic_o start_POSTSUBSCRIPT italic_t end_POSTSUBSCRIPT ) end_ARG ) . 
 
 (4) 

 In practice, for each turn we sample 16 16 16 16 candidate actions and take random actions from top-50% quantile as chosen and from the bottom-50% quantile as rejected. 

 5 Experiments 
 
 The purpose of our experiments is to validate
the effectiveness of SWEET-RL as a multi-turn RL algorithm that trains LLM agents
for complex collaborative tasks. Specifically, they are designed to answer the following questions: (1) How do existing generalist models and multi-turn RL algorithms perform for collaborative tasks on ColBench? (2) How does SWEET-RL’s performance compare with other SOTA multi-turn RL algorithms for training LLM agents on reasoning-heavy tasks? (3) How does the use of asymmetric information help with credit assignments? (4) What are the best algorithmic choices for effectively taking advantage of LLM’s reasoning and generalization capability to perform credit assignments? (5) How does SWEET-RL scale as the number of training samples increase compared to baselines? 

 Table 2: Comparisons of different LLMs and multi-turn RL algorithms on ColBench . SWEET-RL is able to achieve more than 6% performance gain over other multi-turn RL algorithms, enabling Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct to be on par with larger proprietary models. 

 Backend Programming 
 Frontend Design 

 % Tests Passed 
 Success Rate 
 Cosine Similarity 
 Win Rate 

 Single-Turn 
 Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct 
 11.8 
 0 6.9 
 63.1 
 13.6 
 
 Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct 
 24.2 
 14.8 
 61.8 
 13.2 
 
 O1-Mini 
 22.4 
 13.1 
 70.2 
 23.8 
 
 GPT-4O 
 27.6 
 16.2 
 68.6 
 23.8 
 
 SOTA LLMs 
 Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct 
 48.0 
 35.0 
 73.7 
 39.8 
 
 GPT-4O 
 54.6 
 40.4 
 78.1 
 50.0 
 
 O1-Mini 
 43.2 
 30.3 
 77.5 
 47.2 
 
 Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct 
 Zero-Shot 
 34.2 
 22.4 
 72.4 
 33.8 
 
 Rejection Fine-Tuning 
 40.9 
 28.2 
 75.2 
 38.6 
 
 Multi-Turn DPO 
 48.0 
 34.4 
 76.9 
 42.8 
 
 SWEET-RL (ours) 
 56.8 
 40.4 
 77.7 
 48.2 

 5.1 Experimental Setup 
 
 Baseline comparisons. We compare SWEET-RL with a variety of SOTA LLMs and multi-turn RL algorithms on ColBench. We consider Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct and Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct   (Llama3Team, 2024 ) as representatives of SOTA open-source LLMs and GPT4-O and O1-Mini as representatives of SOTA proprietary LLMs. We test these models in both a single-turn and a collaborative setting to understand how LLM agents can benefit from multi-turn collaborative interactions on ColBench. We compare different RL algorithms based on Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct. We first consider a simple yet effective baseline Rejection Fine-Tuning widely used for LLM agent fine-tuning  (Zhou et al., 2024b ; Dong et al., 2023 ) , where Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) is performed on successful trajectories to minimize the negative log-likelihood loss. Furthermore, we consider a recent effective baseline Multi-Turn DPO that applies a variant of DPO  (Rafailov et al., 2024b ) to the multi-turn setting  (Xiong et al., 2024 ; Song et al., 2024 ) . Multi-Turn DPO first constructs contrastive trajectory pairs where the chosen trajectory achieves a higher trajectory reward compared to the rejected trajectory, and uses the DPO loss to directly optimize the policy without using a critic. 

 SWEET-RL first trains a turn-wise advantage model using the same model architecture with access to training-time information and then optimizes the policy with respect to rewards given by the turn-level advantage model as described in Section 4 . We use the reference code and web page as training-time information for Backend Programming and Frontend Design respectively. Due to the multi-modal nature of the reference web page, we instantiate the advantage LLM with a similar sized VLM Qwen2-VL-7B-Instruct  (Yang et al., 2024 ) with a regression head on top of the mean representations of all visual and text tokens. 

 Note that our experiments focus on the setting of learning from historically collected data (offline setting), and thus RL algorithms like PPO  (Schulman et al., 2017 ) and REINFORCE  (Williams, 2004 ) that require on-policy data collection do not apply. This is because in the real world, online human collaboration data requires extensive human annotations and can be costly to obtain. 

 Evaluation metrics. Each task on Backend Programming comes with 10 unit tests, and we report the average percentage of tests passed and task success rate where all 10 unit tests for a task are passed. We report the average cosine similarity of the final web page and the reference web page measured by the image representations from Clip-vit-base-patch32  (Radford et al., 2021 ) for Frontend Design . To provide a more interpretable metric, we also include the win rate with respect to GPT-4O, where the model that lands on a web page closer to the reference web page as measured by cosine similarity wins for each task. 

 5.2 Comparisons on ColBench 
 
 Table 2 shows the performance comparison of different SOTA LLMs and multi-turn RL algorithms across different tasks on ColBench. First, comparing “single-turn” results and the other collaborative results, we note that multi-turn collaborations can greatly enhance the performance of LLM agents for artifact creations by more closely aligning the final product with the reference “expectations” of human simulators.
If the agent has to directly produce the final product in a single turn (top rows), even the best-performing GPT-4O can only achieve 16.2%. In contrast, the success rates for all models are doubled (e.g., the success rate for Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct increases from 6.9% to 22.4%) if they are given the chance to interact with human simulators for several turns and gather more information. Nonetheless, multi-turn collaboration remains a challenging task even for proprietary LLMs like GPT-4O and O1-Mini, which can only achieve a success rate of 40.4% and 30.3%, respectively. Despite the improvements of O1-Mini on symbolic reasoning tasks such as math and coding, we observe that these improvements do not directly result in taking a better strategy for multi-turn collaborative agents, indicating that downstream fine-tuning is still necessary for LLMs to optimize collaboration with humans. 

 5.3 Comparing other algorithms with SWEET-RL 
 
 After fine-tuning with downstream data, we find that even the most naive RL algorithm, Rejection Fine-Tuning, can improve the performance on both tasks, with 5.8% and 4.8% improvements on Backend Programming success rate and Frontend Design win rate, respectively. However, we observe that oftentimes Rejection Fine-Tuning simply teaches the LLM to “memorize” the solution for each training task without learning a generalizable strategy to tackle a novel test tasks. While this issue is mitigated for Multi-Turn DPO by introducing “negative gradients” for the rejected trajectories, the improvement is still limited without proper credit assignments over a long horizon. By explicitly training a turn-level reward model to perform credit assignments through the use of training-time information, we observe a significant gain of SWEET-RL over Multi-Turn DPO on both tasks (6% improvement in success rate for Backend Programming and 5.4% improvement in win rate for Frontend Design). In fact, the resulting model of SWEET-RL using Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct not only matches the performance of Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct with more than 8 times parameters but also achieves competitive performance with SOTA proprietary models like GPT-4O and O1-Mini. 

 5.4 Analysis 
 
 With the advantage of SWEET-RL over baselines presented in Table 2 , this section presents analytical results to understand this advantage and compare alternative designs. 

 Figure 3 : (a) Scaling curve of Best-of-N sampling with respect to different step reward model on Backend Programming. Results show that SWEET can best tell good actions on a turn-wise basis, resulting in the best scaling with respect to Best-of-N sampling. Note that this curve is different from test-time scaling curve because SWEET exploits additional training-time information. (b) Performance scaling of different multi-turn RL algorithms with respect to the amount of fine-tuning data on Backend Programming. While SWEET-RL takes more data initially to learn a reliable critic, it quickly catches up and achieves a better converging performance. 

 How should we use training-time information to help credit assignment? We carry out Best-of-N sampling experiments on Backend Programming to directly compare the capability of different methods to perform credit assignments. At each turn, N candidate actions are sampled from a fixed actor Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct and different methods are used to choose the best action to be executed. We compare our reward model in SWEET-RL with three other natural choices: 1) SWEET-RL w/o Training-Time Information – the same as SWEET-RL except that it only has the interaction history as inputs without access to the reference solution, 2) LLM-as-a-Judge uses a Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct to compare pairwise the quality of each action based on the interaction history and reference solution, and 3) SWEET-RL w/ Value Function where a regular classification head on top of s Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct backbone is trained to predict the expected success rate given the interaction history and the reference solution with a binary classification loss. Performance comparisons are presented in Figure 3 (a) and qualitative comparisons are presented in Appendix D . First of all, we observe that the use of training-time information can significantly enhance the capability to perform credit assignment, evidenced by the huge performance gap between SWEET-RL and SWEET-RL w/o Training-Time Information. While Best-of-N sampling with respect to a fixed LLM-as-a-Judge can result in some improvements over the zeroshot success rate, this improvement is limited. Qualitatively, we found that a fixed LLM-as-a-Judge can easily get distracted by the length and format of the response without actually attending to its utility for task success. Finally, while being standard practice in the deep RL literature, the use of a value function fails to achieve comparable scaling performance compared to SWEET-RL. This shows the importance of the careful RL algorithmic choices of SWEET-RL and that the go-to practice of training a value function may generalize poorly in unseen tasks. 

 What are the best parameterization choices for the critic to perform credit assignment? In Table 3 , we perform ablation experiments to understand the effect of different parameterizations for the advantage function of the critic. In particular, we consider two alternative parameterizations: 1) SWEET-RL w/ Regression Head uses a regression head on top of the mean pooled representations of the last hidden state across all tokens,
2) SWEET-RL w/o Training-Time Information only uses the interaction history as inputs without access to the reference solution,
and 3) SWEET-RL w/o Normalization where we do not perform the normalization step of division by the number of tokens in Equation 3 . As shown in Table 3 , similar to the conclusion from the previous section, the use of a regression head does not generalize well compared to SWEET-RL and training-time information significantly improves the performance. Without the additional normalization step, we find that the trained actor quickly collapses by generating shorter and shorter responses, showing the importance of carefully chosen parameterizations for multi-turn RL algorithms. 

 Table 3: Ablation study on different parameterizations of the critic. Results show that the parameterization of using the mean log probability significantly outperform the other natural choices. 

 % Tests Passed 
 Success Rate 
 
 Rejection Fine-Tuning 
 40.9 
 28.2 
 
 Multi-Turn DPO 
 48.0 
 34.4 
 
 SWEET-RL 
 56.8 
 40.4 
 
 SWEET-RL w/ Regression Head 
 45.3 
 36.2 
 
 SWEET-RL w/o Train-Time Info. 
 44.0 
 31.2 
 
 SWEET-RL w/o Normalization 
 0 4.2 
 0 3.6 

 How does SWEET-RL scale with the amount of fine-tuning data? Additionally, we compare the scaling performance of SWEET-RL compared to the multi-turn RL baselines Rejection Fine-Tuning and Multi-Turn DPO. Results are presented in   Figure 3 (b) . Although SWEET-RL requires more data to train a reliable critic for performing credit assignment where it under-performs Multi-Turn DPO with 3k fine-tuning samples available, SWEET-RL quickly catches up with more samples once the turn-wise critic is trained and results in a significantly improved converging performance. 

 How does SWEET-RL work for different model architectures and off-policy data? Finally, Table 4 presents additional comparison experiments on Backend Programming using a stronger base model Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct to study how SWEET-RL works across different model architectures. We use the same offline data generated by Llama-3.1-8B as Table 2 to understand the effectiveness of different methods for taking advantage of off-policy data (i.e. offline generated by a different model). We first observe that Rejection Fine-Tuning fails to learn from data generated by a worse model, with the success rate dropping from 35.0% to 31.9%. This is potentially because the objective of Rejection Fine-Tuning forces Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct to imitate sub-optimal trajectories generated from the worse Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct word-by-word. While Multi-turn DPO is able to achieve a big improvement even using off-policy data generated from an inferior model (35.0% to 41.8% in success rate), SWEET-RL still maintains a similar gap of 3.8% through performing explicit credit assignments with training-time information (41.8% compared to 45.6% in success rate). 

 Table 4: Comparison results on Backend Programming using Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct as the base model. Results show that SWEET-RL achieves a similar gain over the baselines when using stronger Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct as the base model. 

 Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct 
 % Tests Passed 
 Success Rate 

 Zeroshot 
 48.0 
 35.0 
 
 Rejection Fine-Tuning 
 45.5 
 31.9 
 
 Multi-Turn DPO 
 56.7 
 41.8 
 
 SWEET-RL 
 60.2 
 45.6 

 6 Conclusion 
 
 To advance the development of effective multi-turn RL algorithms that perform effective credit assignments, this paper first introduces a benchmark, ColBench, fo