# FULL TEXT — Measuring AI Ability to Complete Long Software Tasks

https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.14499v3

Measuring AI Ability to Complete Long Software Tasks 

 Report GitHub Issue 
 × 

 Title: 

 Content selection saved. Describe the issue below: 

 Description: 

 Submit without GitHub 
 Submit in GitHub 

 Back to arXiv 

 Why HTML? 

 Report Issue 

 Back to Abstract 

 Download PDF 

 Abstract 
 
 1 Introduction 

 1.1 Related Work 
 
 Agentic AI capability benchmarks 
 AI capability forecasting 
 Human psychometric methods 

 2 Measuring AI agent performance on realistic tasks 

 2.1 Task suite / dataset 
 
 Example tasks 

 2.2 Baselining 
 2.3 Results 

 3 Time horizon 
 
 3.1 Computing time horizon 
 
 3.2 Time horizon vs. release date 
 
 3.2.1 Time horizons at 50% success rate vs 80% success rate 

 3.3 Qualitative analysis 

 4 External validity and robustness 
 
 4.1 SWE-bench Verified 

 5 Extrapolation 
 
 Extrapolating towards one-month-horizon AI 
 Sensitivity analysis 
 Task distribution limitations 
 Future changes in time horizon trends 

 6 Discussion 
 
 Summary 
 Limitations and future work 

 References 
 
 A Expanded Related work 
 
 A.1 Agent and capability benchmarks 
 A.2 Forecasting AI progress 
 A.3 Psychometric methods and Item Response Theory 

 B Task suite details 

 B.1 Task subsuites 
 
 B.1.1 HCAST suite 
 B.1.2 RE-Bench suite 
 
 B.1.3 Software atomic actions (SWAA) suite 

 Decisions (multiple choice) 

 Fill-in-the-blank 

 RE-Bench 

 B.2 Limitations of the task suite 

 C Methodological details 

 C.1 Human baselines 
 
 C.1.1 HCAST tasks 
 C.1.2 RE-Bench baselines 
 C.1.3 SWAA baselines 
 
 C.1.4 Baseline success rate 
 
 Human time horizon 

 C.1.5 Baseline time analysis 

 C.2 Internal PR tasks 
 
 Summary 
 Methodology 
 
 Example issues 

 ‣ Example issues 

 Repo maintainer time vs. baseliner time 

 Manual scoring methods and results 

 Time to score 

 Contract baseliners vs repository maintainers 

 Qualitative impressions 

 C.3 How models were run 
 
 C.3.1 Scaffold and platform details 
 
 C.3.2 Compute usage 

 C.4 Comparison to Item Response Theory 

 D Qualitative analysis 
 
 D.1 Failure categories 
 
 D.2 Specific skills of newer models 

 D.2.1 What do newer models do better? 
 
 Greater robustness to mistakes 
 Tool use 
 Improved logical and programmatic problem solving 

 D.2.2 What do they still do poorly? 
 
 AI agents struggle without clear feedback 
 AI agents often fail to proactively seek out relevant information 

 E Further discussion 
 
 E.1 Constant factors versus slope changes 
 
 E.2 Important factors that could change time horizon slope 
 
 Agency training 
 Compute scaling 
 Automation of AI R D 
 AGI will have “infinite” time horizon 

 E.3 Interpreting time horizon 
 
 Context and skill effects 
 Task distribution effects 
 Measuring extreme time horizons 
 Human time horizon measurements 

 E.4 Limitations and future work 
 
 More models with better elicitation 
 More rigorous human baselining 
 More natural, varied tasks 
 More use of inference compute 
 Data analysis 

 F External validity details 
 
 F.1 Retrodiction from 2023–2025 data 
 F.2 Messiness factors 

 G Miscellaneous tables and figures 
 
 H More ablations and robustness checks 
 
 H.1 Alternative curve fits 
 H.2 Horizons at 80% success rate 
 H.3 Success rate versus inference cost 
 H.4 2024–2025 Horizon growth trend 
 
 H.5 SWE-bench Verified 
 
 Data Collection 
 Time estimates 
 Analysis methodology 
 Annotator vs contract baseliner times 

 H.6 Messiness factors 
 
 H.7 Randomizing file names 
 
 H.7.1 Methods 
 H.7.2 Results 

 H.8 Correlation in performance between agents 
 
 Excess success rates 

 I Code 
 J Author contributions 

 License: CC BY 4.0

arXiv:2503.14499v3 [cs.AI] 25 Feb 2026 

 Measuring AI Ability to Complete Long Software Tasks 

 Thomas Kwa     , Ben West 1 1 footnotemark: 1 ,
 Joel Becker , Amy Deng , Katharyn Garcia , 
 Max Hasin , Sami Jawhar ,
 Megan Kinniment , Nate Rush , Sydney Von Arx
 
 Ryan Bloom , Thomas Broadley , Haoxing Du , Brian Goodrich , Nikola Jurkovic , 
 Luke Harold Miles  , Seraphina Nix , Tao Lin , Chris Painter , Neev Parikh , David Rein , 
 Lucas Jun Koba Sato , Hjalmar Wijk , Daniel M. Ziegler 

 Elizabeth Barnes , Lawrence Chan
 
 Model Evaluation Threat Research (METR) 
 Equal contribution.Corresponding author, thomas.kwa@metr.org .Ohm Chip. Work done at METR.Anthropic. Work done at METR. 

 Abstract 
 Despite rapid progress on AI benchmarks, the real-world meaning of benchmark performance remains unclear.
To quantify the capabilities of AI systems in terms of human capabilities, we propose a new metric: 50%-task-completion time horizon , the time humans typically take to complete tasks that AI models can complete with 50% success rate.
We first timed humans with relevant domain expertise on a combination of RE-Bench, HCAST, and 66 novel shorter tasks. On these tasks, current frontier AI models such as o3 have a 50% time horizon of around 110 minutes.
Furthermore, frontier AI time horizon has doubled approximately every seven months since 2019, though the trend may have accelerated since 2024.
The increase in AI models’ time horizons seems to be primarily driven by greater reliability, ability to adapt to mistakes, logical reasoning, and capacity for tool use.
We discuss the limitations of our results—including their degree of external validity—and the implications of increased autonomy for dangerous capabilities.
If these results generalize to real-world software tasks, extrapolation of this trend predicts that within 5 years, AI systems will be capable of automating many software tasks that currently take humans a month. 

 1 Introduction 

 Figure 1: The length of tasks (measured by how long they take human professionals) that generalist autonomous frontier model agents can complete with 50% reliability has been doubling approximately every 7 months for the last 6 years (Section  3 ).
The shaded region represents 95% CI calculated by hierarchical bootstrap over task families, tasks, and task attempts.
Even if the absolute measurements are off by a factor of 10, the trend predicts that in under a decade we will see AI agents that can independently complete a large fraction of software tasks that currently take humans days or weeks (Section  5 ).

 In the last five years, frontier AI systems have undergone a dramatic transformation in capabilities, evolving from basic text generation [ 37 ] to autonomously executing complex multi-hour machine learning research projects [ 46 ] .
Sufficiently capable AIs could perform dangerous, highly complex actions like autonomous development of chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear weapons (CBRN) and self-replication and adaptation outside human control [ 34 ] .
Understanding AI capabilities helps inform the development of safety guardrails as systems become increasingly powerful.
In particular, many frontier AI developers have committed to using measures of specific AI capabilities to determine the necessary risk mitigations for their frontier AI systems.
Robust benchmarks that can accurately track and forecast AI capabilities thus form the foundation for responsible
AI governance and risk mitigation. 

 However, existing benchmarks face several key limitations.
First, they often consist of artificial rather than economically valuable tasks.
Second, benchmarks are often adversarially selected for tasks that current models struggle with compared to humans, 1 1 1 For example, HellaSwag [ 50 ] and Humanity’s Last Exam [ 33 ] were both generated by adversarially filtering problems against the best performing language models available at the time. biasing the comparison to human performance.
Most critically, individual benchmarks saturate increasingly quickly [ 24 ] , and we lack a more general, intuitive, and quantitative way to compare between different benchmarks, 2 2 2 SWE-bench Verified [ 7 ] does come with human-estimated task completion times. We use SWE-bench Verified tasks and accompanying time estimates to validate our main result in Section  4.1 . which prevents meaningful comparison between models of vastly different capabilities (e.g., GPT-2 versus Claude 3.7 ).
As a consequence, while the last few years have seen dramatic increases in AI performance on many individual benchmarks, understanding the progress of AI capabilities in general has required estimating the qualitative difficulty of the latest benchmarks AI systems can pass. 

 We propose tracking AI progress over time using the task completion time horizon : the duration of tasks that models can complete at a certain success probability, providing an intuitive measure of real-world capability compared to humans.
As models may not reliably complete all tasks of a given length, we operationalize this by measuring the X%-(task completion) time horizon –the length of tasks that models can complete approximately X% of the time. 

 We prototype this methodology using three datasets designed to capture skills required for research or software engineering (Section  2.1 ), totaling 170 tasks with a wide range of difficulty: HCAST [ 38 ] , RE-Bench [ 46 ] , and Software Atomic Actions (SWAA), a new suite of shorter software tasks that can measure pre-2023 models (Appendix  B.1.3 ).
Using skilled human baseliners, we estimate the duration that a domain knowledgeable human (without task-specific context) takes to complete these tasks (Section  2.2 ).
We evaluate the performance of 12 frontier models from 2019 to 2025 on these tasks (Section  2.3 ). Using methodology inspired by human psychometric studies, we then estimate the duration of tasks that models can complete with 50% success rate—the 50% time horizon (Section  3.1 ). 

 We find that the 50% time horizon has been growing exponentially from 2019–2025 on these tasks, with a doubling time of approximately seven months (Figure  1 ). We compare our main result with our exploratory results on non-SWAA tasks, finding that the 2023–2025 horizon growth rate is about 20% faster than the 2019–2025 rate (Section F.1 ).
We also measure the 80% time horizon of models (Figure  17 ) and find a similar trend, though horizons are roughly 5x shorter.
This progress appears to be driven by several key factors: improved logical reasoning, better tool use, and greater reliability and self-awareness in task execution (Section  3.3 ).
We also note several limitations of current systems—notably, performance is much lower on less structured, “messier” tasks (Section  F.2 ). 

 Since our tasks do not perfectly represent the average segment of intellectual labor by researchers and software engineers, this raises the question of external validity (Section  4 ): whether the exponential trend holds on real-world tasks. We include three supplementary external validity experiments, which find little evidence of performance trends being slower on the somewhat more realistic tasks we tested, but do not rule out the possibility that trends are meaningfully slower on the distribution of tasks required to automate software engineer jobs. We also find evidence that AI agent time horizons can differ by a large factor depending on the task domain and reference human population. 

 We conclude by discussing implications for AI capabilities forecasting (Section  5 ). Naively extrapolating the trend in horizon length implies that AI will reach a time horizon of 1 month (167 work hours) between mid-2028 and mid-2031 (Figure  6 ). However, extrapolation is affected by both external validity concerns and future changes in the trend. 

 Figure 2: Our methodology for measuring AI agent time horizon. First, we create a diverse task suite of 170 tasks. Second, we have both humans and AI agents (consisting of an AI model and a scaffold) attempt these tasks, recording the time taken by successful humans and the success rate for AI agents. Third, we fit a logistic model to find the time horizon at which each AI agent has a 50% chance of success, and plot this against the release date of the model. 

 1.1 Related Work 

 Here, we briefly discuss related work. See Appendix  A for an expanded discussion. 

 Agentic AI capability benchmarks 

 Many recent benchmarks aim to measure the capability of AI systems to act as agents in general, including AgentBench [ 22 ] , ToolBench [ 13 ] , GAIA [ 26 ] , TheAgentCompany [ 47 ] , the Berkeley Function Calling Leaderboard [ 48 ] . In this work, we study AI agent performance on RE-Bench [ 46 ] , HCAST [ 38 ] , and SWE-Bench Verified [ 7 ] , which focus on machine learning and software engineering tasks. Other similar benchmarks include MLAgentBench [ 17 ] , MLEBench [ 5 ] , and DSBench [ 20 ] . In concurrent work, Miserendino et al. [ 27 ] create the SWE-Lancer benchmark, consisting of 1400 freelance software engineering tasks gathered from Upwork with real-world payouts totalling above $1 million. 

 AI capability forecasting 

 This work builds on previous efforts to forecast the capabilities of AI systems over time, including efforts to contextualize benchmark performance using human experts Phuong et al. [ 34 ]; Murray et al. [ 28 ] and efforts to forecast performance on particular benchmarks Owen [ 31 ]; Pimpale et al. [ 35 ] . Contextualizing AI capabilities using human time horizon was proposed by Ngo [ 29 ] , and similar concepts were discussed in Carlsmith [ 4 ] and Cotra [ 9 ] . 

 Human psychometric methods 

 Our methodology draws inspiration from human psychometric testing, especially Item Response Theory [ 3 ; 10 ; 23 ] . 

 2 Measuring AI agent performance on realistic tasks 

 2.1 Task suite / dataset 

 Our tasks comprise three distinct task suites: 

 1. 
 
 A subset of HCAST [ 38 ] : 97 diverse software tasks ranging from 1 minute to 30 hours. 3 3 3 Our results also include one task from GAIA [ 26 ] , and five tasks involving writing code that is robust to an adversary. 

 2. 
 
 RE-Bench [ 46 ] : 7 difficult ML research engineering tasks, all eight hours long. 

 3. 
 
 Software atomic actions (SWAA): 66 single-step tasks representing short segments of work by software developers, ranging from 1 second to 30 seconds. 

 All tasks are automatically scored with a continuous score or binary threshold; details of how we normalize and process scores are given in Section 3.1 , and other task suite details in Appendix  B . 

 Example tasks 

 See Table 1 for five example tasks. Tasks under 1 minute measure knowledge relevant to professional software engineering. At 10 minutes, tasks can include the easiest meaningful step of a real software project (e.g. configuring a common open-source package). The shortest tasks that could be standalone economically relevant projects take around one hour; by eight hours tasks represent valuable software projects. Many more examples of these tasks are available in Wijk et al. [ 46 ] and Rein et al. [ 38 ] . 

 Family 

 Length 

 Description 

 find_shell_script 

 3 seconds 

 Multiple choice: “Which file is a shell script?”
Choices: “run.sh”, “run.txt”, “run.py”, “run.md” 

 wikipedia_research 

 1 minute 

 Research simple factual information from Wikipedia and provide accurate
answers to straightforward questions. 

 oxdna_simple 

 9 minutes 

 Detect and fix a bug in the input files for a molecular dynamics simulation using the oxDNA package. 

 munge_data 

 56 minutes 

 Write a Python script to transform JSON data from one format to another by inferring the conversion rules from provided example files. 

 cuda_backtesting 

 8 hours 

 Speed up a Python backtesting tool for trade executions by implementing custom CUDA kernels while preserving all functionality, aiming for a 30x performance improvement. 

 Table 1: Example tasks for different durations; see Rein et al. [ 38 ] and Wijk et al. [ 46 ] for more examples. 

 2.2 Baselining 

 In order to ground AI agent performance, we also measure the performance of multiple human “baseliners” on most tasks and recorded the duration of their attempts.
In total, we use over 800 baselines totaling 2,529 hours, of which 558 baselines (286 successful) come from HCAST and RE-Bench, and 249 (236 successful) from the shorter SWAA tasks. 148 of the 169 tasks have human baselines, but we rely on researcher estimates for 21 tasks in HCAST. 

 Our baseliners are skilled professionals in software engineering, machine learning, and cybersecurity, with the majority having attended world top-100 universities. They have an average of about 5 years of relevant experience, with software engineering baseliners having more experience than ML or cybersecurity baseliners. For more details about baselines, see Appendix  C.1 . 

 2.3 Results 

 We measure 12 frontier (and 4 near-frontier) models released between 2019 and 2025; full information on the models and scaffolds used can be found in Appendix  C.3 . We perform 8 runs 4 4 4 This number is approximate, because a small number of runs failed due to internal infrastructure issues. per agent/task pair and report the average results in Figure  3 . There is a strong upwards trend over time, with recent models completing approximately 50% of all tasks, while earlier models perform substantially worse. We find substantial correlation between the tasks that models can complete (Figure  22 ), with average correlation of approximately 0.73. 

 Figure 3: Left: Average task success rate across the entire combined suite, for each model. As with all of the results reported in the main body of this work, to reduce the influence of large task families, we weight each task by the inverse square root of the number of tasks in the family it belongs to. Right: Model success rates are negatively correlated with how much time it takes a human to complete the task. ( y = − 0.07 ​ x + 0.66 y=-0.07x+0.66 , R 2 : 0.83 R^{2}:0.83 ) 

 There is a negative correlation between the time it takes a human baseliner to complete a task and the average success rate (across all models) on the task. This decrease in success rate over length (Figure 3 ) is well-fit by an exponential model ( R 2 ≈ 0.80 R^{2}\approx 0.80 when regressing model success rate against the logarithm of human time-to-complete). As expected, more recent models can complete longer tasks, with Claude 3.7 Sonnet and o3 completing some tasks that take human baseliners 4 hours (Figure  4 ). 

 3 Time horizon 

 3.1 Computing time horizon 

 To convert agent run data to task completion time horizon, we first convert the agent performance on each task to a binary value (success or failure). Many tasks are naturally binary, including all SWAA tasks. Continuously scored tasks are binarized via a task-specific threshold chosen to represent human performance. For HCAST, the task-specific threshold is the same “target score” the human baseliner tries to achieve, which we also use to filter for successful runs. RE-Bench tasks have a fixed time rating of 8 hours, so the task-specific threshold is the average score of 7-9–hour human runs. 

 Figure 4: Success rates of all models on the test suite, showing the computation of time horizon as predicted 50% success rate time. The logistic fit is fairly good, though there is a jump in success rate between 1 minute SWAA tasks and 1 minute HCAST tasks. 

 Once we have agent success rates and time ratings for each task, we fit time horizons by performing the following logistic regression: 5 5 5 Compare to Item Response Theory (IRT) [ 3 ] . Like in IRT, we use logistic regression to find the task difficulty at which the agent has a 50% chance of success, but unlike IRT, we use difficulty ratings directly based on human baseline time rather than ratings learned from agent performance. Further details and comparison to standard IRT methods are provided in Appendix C.4 . 

 p success ​ ( agent , task ) = σ ​ ( ( log ⁡ h agent − log ⁡ t task ) ⋅ β agent ) p_{\mathrm{success}}(\mathrm{agent},\mathrm{task})=\sigma((\log h_{\mathrm{agent}}-\log t_{\mathrm{task}})\cdot\beta_{\mathrm{agent}}) 

 where t task t_{\mathrm{task}} is the geometric mean time of successful human baselines, and h agent h_{\mathrm{agent}} and β agent \beta_{\mathrm{agent}} are learned parameters, with h agent h_{\mathrm{agent}} representing the 50% time horizon. 

 3.2 Time horizon vs. release date 

 In Figure  1 , we plot the time horizons of each model against their release date—the date at which the lab first publicly announced the frontier model. 6 6 6 In most cases, the release date is for each frontier AI model is the same model as the one we evaluated. However, GPT-3 (davinci) and GPT-3.5 (code-davinci-002 and text-davinci-002) are closed-source and no longer available through API access, but we use their release dates for the closest available models, which OpenAI advertises as having equivalent performance: GPT-3’s release date for davinci-002, and GPT-3.5’s date for gpt3.5-turbo-instruct. In addition, we linearly regress 7 7 7 Specifically, we perform Ordinary Least Squares regression on log ⁡ ( model_horizon ) = α + β ⋅ release_date \log(\text{model\_horizon})=\alpha+\beta\cdot\text{release\_date} . In Appendix H we discuss other curve-fitting methods, and conclude that the fit is not sensitive to various hyperparameters such as regularization, weighting of tasks, or WLS vs. OLS. log ⁡ ( time horizon ) \log(\text{time horizon}) against release date, finding that time horizon has doubled every 207 days with a 95% bootstrapped confidence interval 166-240 days (roughly ± 19 % \pm 19\% ). Error bars are calculated via 10,000 samples from a three-level hierarchical bootstrap over task families, then tasks, then runs. 

 While there are wide error bars on each individual models’ horizon lengths, these errors are highly correlated between models. This is because tasks at the same human time rating vary widely in difficulty for models, and sampling easy (or hard) tasks will result in a higher (or lower) horizon estimate for all models. Therefore, we are more confident in the slope of the time horizon trend than in the time horizon of any particular model. The fit is not sensitive to various hyperparameters such as regularization, weighting of tasks, and WLS vs. OLS (see Figure 6 ). 

 Horizon length increases substantially over the entire time period from 2019 to early 2025. GPT-2 has a 50% time horizon of only 2 seconds, while o3 has a 110-minute time horizon and succeeds at several tasks over 4 hours. Also, o3 lies above the long-run trend (p = 0.006); this is robust to methodological ablations like using continuous scoring (Appendix  H ), which may imply the trend in 2024 and early 2025 is faster. 

 3.2.1 Time horizons at 50% success rate vs 80% success rate 

 To check whether our choice of 50% success rate affects the long-run trend, we also compute the time horizon at which AI agents succeed at tasks with 80% success rate, shown in Figure  17 . The doubling time in 80% time horizon (204 days) is similar to the doubling time of 50% time horizon (207 days), within margin of error. However, models’ 80% time horizons are 4-6x shorter, suggesting that even models that sometimes succeed on difficult and diverse tasks cannot reliably perform tasks of moderate length. Due to the limited dataset, we cannot confidently measure time horizons at very high success rates (e.g. 95%)– see Section  E.3 . 

 3.3 Qualitative analysis 

 By examining transcripts from 31 randomly sampled unsuccessful GPT-4 1106 agent runs and 32 o1 runs, we observe that models seem to have improved greatly in terms of tool use capabilities, demonstrate a markedly greater ability to adapt to mistakes (as opposed to repeating unsuccessful actions), and perform much better at parts of tasks requiring logical reasoning or code generation. However, we noticed that AI agents still seem to struggle in intuitively “messier” environments—specifically, environments without clear feedback loops, or where the agent needs to proactively seek out relevant information. 

 Table  3.3 shows the categorized failures by model. We provide definitions of these categories, as well as examples of qualitative improvements and continuing limitations in Appendix  D . 

 Table 2: Categorization of 31 failed runs by GPT-4 1106 and 32 failed runs by o1 (Section  3.3 ). Note that as o1 succeeds at more tasks, its failures correspond to more challenging tasks compared to GPT-4’s failures. 

 o 1 lcc
 Failure type 
 
 GPT-4 1106 
 o1 

 Poor planning/tool choice 
 4 
 6 

 Incorrect mental math/reasoning 
 6 
 7 

 Premature task abandonment 
 8 
 16 

 Repeating failed actions 
 12 
 2 

 Other 
 1 
 1 

 Total 
 31 
 32 

 4 External validity and robustness 

 We check whether the 2023–2025 trend without the SWAA dataset retrodicts the trend since 2019, and find that the trends agree. We also perform three experiments to check external validity. 

 First, we replicate our methods on SWE-bench Verified.
We find that the exponential trend still holds (Figure  5 ), albeit with an even shorter doubling time, possibly because SWE-bench Verified difficulty annotations, meant to represent high-context maintainer time, may differentially underestimate how long human contractors take to perform easier SWE-bench tasks. 

 Second, we score the HCAST and RE-Bench tasks against a list of 16 “messiness” factors that aim to capture some systematic differences between the tasks studied here and hard“real-world” tasks. Some examples include whether the task is resource limited, novel, or involves a dynamic environment (Section  H.6 ). Controlling for task length, we find models perform worse on tasks that have higher messiness scores. Notably, trends in AI agent performance over time are similar for the lower and higher messiness subsets of these tasks (see Figure 12 ). In particular, we find no evidence of plateaus in performance trends specific to the higher messiness subset. 

 Third, we measure AI agent performance on a small, uncontaminated set of our internal pull requests (PRs) (Section  C.2 ). We find large differences in the speed at which different human groups complete the internal PR tasks, with contractors taking 5-18x longer to fix issues than repo maintainers. We also find that AI agent performance is worse than would be predicted by maintainer time-to-complete as a measure of task length, but is consistent with contractor time-to-complete, 

 SWE-bench Verified information is provided below. Details of the retrodiction and messiness analysis can be found in Appendix  F , and details of the internal PRs experiment in C.2 . 

 4.1 SWE-bench Verified 

 To check whether we observe similar performance trends on other benchmarks, we apply our methodology to SWE-bench Verified, an industry standard benchmark for evaluating language model performance on software engineering tasks [ 30 ] . All tasks in the SWE-bench Verified dataset were harvested from large open source repositories, like matplotlib or django, and then filtered to ensure they are automatically checkable and well-specified [ 19 ] . 

 Figure 5: 
 
 Performance of frontier AI models using reported SWE-bench Verified results (Section  4.1 ). We observe a similar exponential trend to Figure  1 , albeit with a steeper slope. 

 Model time horizon computed from SWE-bench Verified tasks seem to follow an exponential trend from late 2023 through 2024. However, while the doubling time predicted by HCAST + SWAA + RE-bench using 2024 models is 143 days, the doubling time on SWE-bench Verified results is shorter—around 70 days. 

 SWE-bench Verified time annotations were based on the expected time it would take an “engineer who has had a few hours to familiarize themselves with the codebase” to solve the issue [ 19 ] . We found that annotator time estimates differentially underestimate how long our contract baseliners take to complete the easiest SWE-bench verified tasks. As a result, our time horizon estimates for SWE-bench Verified (which use annotator times) are likely to underestimate the time horizon of less capable models relative to contractor times, in turn shortening doubling times. For more details see Appendix H.5 . 

 5 Extrapolation 

 Extrapolating towards one-month-horizon AI 

 To forecast when AI systems may be capable of autonomously producing large economic value and potential catastrophic actions, we chose one month (approximately 167 working hours for a fair comparison with humans, since humans cannot work 24/7) for two reasons. First, Ngo [ 29 ] writes that a 1-month AGI (defined as an AI that outperforms most knowledgeable humans who are given 1 month of work hours, i.e. 167 hours, to perform the task) would necessarily exceed human performance at economically valuable endeavors like writing large software applications, founding startups, and making novel scientific discoveries. 8 8 8 Note that our forecasts concern AI with a 1-month horizon on software tasks, not 1-month AGI, because we evaluate models only on software and research tasks. Nevertheless, given past correlations in different areas of AI performance, 1-month (167 hours) time horizon AI may be significantly generally capable. Second, one month is around the period when new hires at a company begin to complete onboarding and generate economic value, 9 9 9 Onboarding “can last from a few weeks to more than a year” [ 52 ] , and employees often start generating economic value midway through the onboarding process. and so an AI with a horizon of 1 month could be capable of acquiring context like a human employee, allowing it to complete high-context as well as low-context tasks. We cannot rule out that a system capable of 1-month tasks, even at 50% reliability, could be transformative for our society, potentially including the ability for catastrophic harm. 

 Figure 6: A sensitivity analysis of the extrapolated date at which frontier AI systems will have a horizon of 1 month. In each row, we apply 10,000 random perturbations to our data and find the distribution over the date of 1-month AI implied by the perturbed data.
Box endpoints represent the 25th and 75th percentiles, and whiskers the 10th and 90th percentiles, with outliers not displayed. Note that this plot does not account for future changes in the trend or external validity concerns, which are responsible for the majority of our uncertainty. 

 Sensitivity analysis 

 Figure  6 shows a sensitivity analysis of our results over various sources of noise. “Bootstrap (tasks)”, “Bootstrap (runs)” and “Bootstrap (models)” represents the limited number of tasks, run-to-run variance, and limited models respectively. “Weighting/regularization” represents methodological choices; this perturbation includes 10 hyperparameter combinations with and without task diversity weighting, and with a logistic regression regularization parameter between 0.01 and 0.2. “IID Baseline Noise” multiplies every task duration by a random factor based on the empirical distribution of baseline times. Note our confidence in the 2024–2025 only trend is low because there are only seven frontier models in this time span. 

 Because our analysis puts low probability on the growth rate of time horizon on our tasks being much slower than one doubling every 8 months, the uncertainty in the extrapolated date of 1-month AI is fairly small (80% CI width about 2 years, central estimate mid-2029). If future progress instead follows the 2024–2025 trend, 1-month AI would arrive sooner, with half the probability in 2027 and even late 2026. 

 It is possible that systematic biases and alternate methodologies have a greater impact on forecasts, and we discuss these in Appendix  H . In addition, due to the inherent difficulty of predicting the future, real forecasts will have larger error than this naive extrapolation, which we discuss below. 

 Task distribution limitations 

 We note several differences between this task suite and realistic tasks in Appendix  B.2 : in short, realistic tasks rarely have automatic scoring, and often require dealing with other agents, resource constraints, dynamic environments, and high reliability requirements. Such differences cast doubt on whether the rapid performance improvements seen on this task suite (and other benchmarks) will generalize. It may be that benchmarks like HCAST and SWE-Bench Verified are insufficient for forecasting real-world AI capabilities, and accurate forecasting will require deliberate construction of more realistic benchmarks without these limitations. 

 Future changes in time horizon trends 

 The time horizon trend may significantly change in the future due to factors including agency training, compute scaling, and automation of AI research and development. Agency training and eventual automation of AI R D are more likely to speed up the trend, whereas compute scaling could slow it (but be partially offset by algorithmic improvements); a future artificial general intelligence (AGI) could technically have an infinite time horizon. See Appendix E for details. 

 6 Discussion 

 Summary 

 In this paper, we proposed an intuitive, quantitative metric for AI capabilities: the task completion time horizon, which relates AI performance on tasks to the typical length of time human experts require to complete the tasks. We constructed a dataset of 66 shorter SWAA tasks, combined these with existing benchmarks, and conducted baselines to estimate their difficulty. To measure the trend in time horizon, we benchmarked 11 frontier AI models released between 2019 and 2025 on this dataset, and found (Section  3 ) that the 50% task completion time horizon on these tasks has been growing exponentially from 2019–2025 with a doubling time of approximately seven months (Figure  1 ). We also noted important limitations of current systems, particularly their lower performance on less structured, “messier” tasks (Appendix  F.2 ). 

 Finally, we attempt to extrapolate the trend on these tasks to one-month (167 hours) AI (Section  5 ), finding that if the trend continues and observed performance trends generalize to real-world tasks, an 80% confidence interval for the release date of AI that can complete 1-month long software tasks spans from mid-2028 to mid-2030 (Section 5 )– or even as soon as early 2027 if the 2024–2025 trend continues. 

 Limitations and future work 

 Even though we believe the exponential trend to be robust, we caution that time horizon is always measured relative to a domain, task distribution, and human baseliners’ level of skill and context, and can be difficult to measure in practice, especially for longer horizons or success rates near 100%. We discuss nuances with interpreting time horizon in Appendix  E.3 . Finally, in Appendix  E.4 , we discuss ways of extending or improving our results, such as by studying multiple domains, more models, better elicitation, inference scaling, or other statistical methods. 

 Acknowledgments and Disclosure of Funding 

 The authors thank the following reviewers for feedback on draft versions of this paper. Ryan Greenblatt, Aaron Scher, Romeo Dean, Mike Knoop, Jeff Wu, Steve Newman, Rohit Krishnan, Taren Stinebrickner-Kauffman, JS Denain, Jacob Pfau, Seb Krier, Anton Troynikov, Max Henderson, Ajeya Cotra, Max Nadeau, Tamay Besiroglu, Nate Thomas. The authors thank Charles Foster and Michael Chen for their support with the publication. 

 We especially thank the following reviewers for substantial feedback: Sara Fish, David Duvenaud, Eli Lifland, Holden Karnofsky, and Rif A. Saurous.
We also thank Stephanie He for her graphic design work on Figure  2 , and Ryan Greenblatt for input on the scoring methodology. 

 References 

 D. Amodei and D. Hernandez (2018) 
 AI and compute .
 
 Note: OpenAI blog post, May 16, 2018 
 
 External Links: Link 
 
 Cited by: §A.2 .

 J. Austin, A. Odena, et al. (2021) 
 Program synthesis with large language models .
 
 Note: arXiv preprint, arXiv:2108.07732 
 
 External Links: Link 
 
 Cited by: §A.1 .

 F. B. Baker (2001) 
 The basics of item response theory .
 
 ERIC .
 
 Cited by: §A.3 ,
 §1.1 ,
 footnote 5 .

 J. Carlsmith (2020) 
 How much computational power does it take to match the human brain? .
 
 Note: Open Philanthropy report, August 14, 2020 
 
 External Links: Link 
 
 Cited by: §A.2 ,
 §1.1 .

 J. S. Chan, N. Chowdhury, O. Jaffe, J. Aung, D. Sherburn, E. Mays, G. Starace, K. Liu, L. Maksin, T. Patwardhan, L. Weng, and A. Madry (2024) 
 MLE-bench: evaluating machine learning agents on machine learning engineering .
 
 External Links: 2410.07095 ,
 Link 
 
 Cited by: §A.1 ,
 §1.1 .

 M. Chen, J. Tworek, H. Jun, Q. Yuan, H. Ponde de Oliveira Pinto, J. Kaplan, H. Edwards, Y. Burda, N. Joseph, G. Brockman, et al. (2021) 
 Evaluating large language models trained on code .
 
 Note: arXiv preprint, arXiv:2107.03374 
 
 External Links: Link 
 
 Cited by: §A.1 .

 N. Chowdhury, J. Aung, C. J. Shern, O. Jaffe, D. Sherburn, G. Starace, E. Mays, R. Dias, M. Aljubeh, M. Glaese, C. E. Jimenez, J. Yang, L. Ho, T. Patwardhan, K. Liu, and A. Madry (2024) 
 Introducing SWE-bench verified .
 
 Note: https://openai.com/index/introducing-swe-bench-verified/ Accessed: 2025-02-26 
 
 Cited by: §A.1 ,
 §1.1 ,
 footnote 2 .

 K. Cobbe, V. Kosaraju, M. Bavarian, M. Chen, H. Jun, L. Kaiser, M. Plappert, J. Tworek, J. Hilton, R. Nakano, et al. (2021) 
 Training verifiers to solve math word problems .
 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.14168 .
 
 Cited by: §B.1.3 .

 A. Cotra (2020) 
 Draft report on ai timelines .
 
 Note: Draft report on AI timelines; technical report 
 
 External Links: Link 
 
 Cited by: §A.2 ,
 §1.1 .

 R. J. de Ayala (2017) 
 Handbook of item response theory: models, applications, and issues .
 
 Guilford Press .
 
 Cited by: §A.3 ,
 §1.1 .

 Epoch AI (2024) 
 Data on notable AI models .
 
 Note: Accessed: 2025-03-04 
 
 External Links: Link 
 
 Cited by: §A.2 ,
 §E.2 .

 E. Erdil and T. Besiroglu (2023) 
 Algorithmic progress in computer vision .
 
 External Links: 2212.05153 ,
 Link 
 
 Cited by: §E.2 .

 Z. Guo, S. Cheng, H. Wang, S. Liang, Y. Qin, P. Li, Z. Liu, M. Sun, and Y. Liu (2024) 
 StableToolBench: towards stable large-scale benchmarking on tool learning of large language models .
 
 External Links: 2403.07714 
 
 Cited by: §A.1 ,
 §1.1 .

 D. Hendrycks, S. Basart, S. Kadavath, M. Mazeika, A. Arora, E. Guo, C. Burns, S. Puranik, H. He, D. Song, et al. (2021) 
 Measuring coding challenge competence with apps .
 
 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) Datasets and Benchmarks Track ,
 
 External Links: Link 
 
 Cited by: §A.1 .

 D. Hendrycks, C. Burns, S. Basart, A. Zou, M. Mazeika, D. Song, and J. Steinhardt (2020) 
 Measuring massive multitask language understanding .
 
 CoRR abs/2009.03300 .
 
 External Links: Link ,
 2009.03300 
 
 Cited by: §A.1 .

 A. Ho, T. Besiroglu, E. Erdil, D. Owen, R. Rahman, Z. C. Guo, D. Atkinson, N. Thompson, and J. Sevilla (2024) 
 Algorithmic progress in language models .
 
 External Links: 2403.05812 ,
 Link 
 
 Cited by: §E.2 .

 Q. Huang, J. Vora, P. Liang, and J. Leskovec (2024) 
 MLAgentBench: evaluating language agents on machine learning experimentation .
 
 In Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on Machine Learning ,
 
 ICML’24 .
 
 Cited by: §A.1 ,
 §1.1 .

 Z. Jiang, D. Schmidt, D. Srikanth, D. Xu, I. Kaplan, D. Jacenko, and Y. Wu (2025) 
 AIDE: ai-driven exploration in the space of code .
 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.13138 .
 
 Cited by: footnote 17 .

 C. E. Jimenez, J. Yang, A. Wettig, S. Yao, K. Pei, O. Press, and K. R. Narasimhan (2024) 
 SWE-bench: can language models resolve real-world github issues? .
 
 In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations ,
 
 External Links: Link 
 
 Cited by: §A.1 ,
 §4.1 ,
 §4.1 .

 L. Jing, Z. Huang, X. Wang, W. Yao, W. Yu, K. Ma, H. Zhang, X. Du, and D. Yu (2024) 
 DSBench: how far are data science agents to becoming data science experts? .
 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.07703 .
 
 Cited by: §1.1 .

 A. Kipnis, K. Voudouris, L. M. S. Buschoff, and E. Schulz (2025) 
 Metabench – a sparse benchmark of reasoning and knowledge in large language models .
 
 External Links: 2407.12844 ,
 Link 
 
 Cited by: §C.4 .

 X. Liu, H. Yu, H. Zhang, Y. Xu, X. Lei, H. Lai, Y. Gu, H. Ding, K. Men, K. Yang, S. Zhang, X. Deng, A. Zeng, Z. Du, C. Zhang, S. Shen, T. Zhang, Y. Su, H. Sun, M. Huang, Y. Dong, and J. Tang (2023) 
 AgentBench: evaluating llms as agents .
 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.03688 .
 
 External Links: Link 
 
 Cited by: §A.1 ,
 §1.1 .

 F. Martínez-Plumed, R. B.C. Prudêncio, A. Martínez-Usó, and J. Hernández-Orallo (2019) 
 Item response theory in ai: analysing machine learning classifiers at the instance level .
 
 Artificial Intelligence 271 , pp. 18–42 .
 
 External Links: ISSN 0004-3702 ,
 Document ,
 Link 
 
 Cited by: §A.3 ,
 §1.1 .

 N. Maslej, L. Fattorini, R. Perrault, V. Parli, A. Reuel, E. Brynjolfsson, J. Etchemendy, K. Ligett, T. Lyons, J. Manyika, J. C. Niebles, Y. Shoham, R. Wald, and J. Clark (2024) 
 Artificial intelligence index report 2024 .
 
 External Links: 2405.19522 ,
 Link 
 
 Cited by: §A.2 ,
 §1 .

 METR (2025) 
 Measuring automated kernel engineering .
 
 Note: https://metr.org/blog/2025-02-14-measuring-automated-kernel-engineering/ 
 
 Cited by: footnote 17 .

 G. Mialon, C. Fourrier, T. Wolf, Y. LeCun, and T. Scialom (2024) 
 GAIA: a benchmark for general AI assistants .
 
 In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations ,
 
 External Links: Link 
 
 Cited by: §A.1 ,
 §1.1 ,
 footnote 3 .

 S. Miserendino, M. Wang, T. Patwardhan, and J. Heidecke (2025) 
 SWE-lancer: can frontier llms earn $1 million from real-world freelance software engineering? .
 
 External Links: 2502.12115 ,
 Link 
 
 Cited by: §A.1 ,
 §1.1 .

 M. Murray, H. Papadatos, O. Quarks, P. Gimenez, and S. Campos (2025) 
 Mapping ai benchmark data to quantitative risk estimates through expert elicitation .
 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.04299 .
 
 Cited by: §A.2 ,
 §1.1 .

 R. Ngo (2023) 
 Clarifying and predicting AGI .
 
 LessWrong .
 
 Note: https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/BoA3agdkAzL6HQtQP/clarifying-and-predicting-agi Accessed: 2024-03-21 
 
 Cited by: §A.2 ,
 §1.1 ,
 §5 .

 OpenAI (2025) 
 OpenAI o3-mini .
 
 Note: https://openai.com/index/openai-o3-mini [Accessed 18-03-2025] 
 
 Cited by: §4.1 .

 D. Owen (2024) 
 How predictable is language model benchmark performance? .
 
 External Links: 2401.04757 
 
 Cited by: §A.2 ,
 §1.1 .

 D. Paperno, G. Kruszewski, A. Lazaridou, N. Pham, R. Bernardi, S. Pezzelle, M. Baroni, G. Boleda, and R. Fernández (2016) 
 The LAMBADA dataset: word prediction requiring a broad discourse context .
 
 In Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) ,
 
 pp. 1525–1534 .
 
 Cited by: §B.1.3 .

 L. Phan, A. Gatti, Z. Han, N. Li, J. Hu, H. Zhang, S. Shi, M. Choi, A. Agrawal, A. Chopra, et al. (2025) 
 Humanity’s last exam .
 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.14249 .
 
 Cited by: footnote 1 .

 M. Phuong, M. Aitchison, E. Catt, S. Cogan, A. Kaskasoli, V. Krakovna, D. Lindner, M. Rahtz, Y. Assael, S. Hodkinson, et al. (2024) 
 Evaluating frontier models for dangerous capabilities .
 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.13793 .
 
 Cited by: §A.2 ,
 §1.1 ,
 §1 .

 G. Pimpale, A. Højmark, J. Scheurer, and M. Hobbhahn (2025) 
 Forecasting frontier language model agent capabilities .
 
 External Links: 2502.15850 ,
 Link 
 
 Cited by: §A.2 ,
 §1.1 .

 Y. Qin, S. Liang, Y. Ye, K. Zhu, L. Yan, Y. Lu, Y. Lin, X. Cong, X. Tang, B. Qian, S. Zhao, L. Hong, R. Tian, R. Xie, J. Zhou, M. Gerstein, D. Li, Z. Liu, and M. Sun (2023) 
 ToolLLM: facilitating large language models to master 16000+ real-world apis .
 
 External Links: 2307.16789 ,
 Link 
 
 Cited by: §A.1 .

 A. Radford, J. Wu, R. Child, D. Luan, D. Amodei, I. Sutskever, et al. (2019) 
 Language models are unsupervised multitask learners .
 
 OpenAI blog 1 ( 8 ), pp. 9 .
 
 Cited by: §1 .

 D. Rein, J. Becker, A. Deng, S. Nix, C. Canal, D. O’Connell, P. Arnott, R. Bloom, T. Broadley, K. Garcia, B. Goodrich, M. Hasin, S. Jawhar, M. Kinniment, T. Kwa, A. Lajko, N. Rush, L. J. K. Sato, S. Von Arx, B. West, L. Chan, and E. Barnes (2025) 
 HCAST: Human-Calibrated Autonomy Software Tasks .
 
 Note: Forthcoming 
 
 Cited by: §B.1.1 ,
 §C.1.1 ,
 §1.1 ,
 §1 ,
 item 1 ,
 §2.1 ,
 Table 1 .

 J. Roberts, M. R. Taesiri, A. Sharma, A. Gupta, S. Roberts, I. Croitoru, S. Bogolin, J. Tang, F. Langer, V. Raina, V. Raina, H. Xiong, V. Udandarao, J. Lu, S. Chen, S. Purkis, T. Yan, W. Lin, G. Shin, Q. Yang, A. T. Nguyen, D. I. Atkinson, A. Baranwal, A. Coca, M. Dang, S. Dziadzio, J. D. Kunz, K. Liang, A. Lo, B. Pulfer, S. Walton, C. Yang, K. Han, and S. Albanie (2025) 
 ZeroBench: an impossible visual benchmark for contemporary large multimodal models .
 
 External Links: 2502.09696 ,
 Link 
 
 Cited by: §A.1 .

 D. M. Roodman (2020) 
 On the probability distribution of long-term changes in the growth rate of the global economy: an outside view .
 
 External Links: Link 
 
 Cited by: 3rd item .

 J. Sevilla, L. Heim, A. Ho, T. Besiroglu, M. Hobbhahn, and P. Villalobos (2022) 
 Compute trends across three eras of machine learning .
 
 In 2022 International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN) ,
 
 pp. 1–8 .
 
 Cited by: §A.2 ,
 §E.2 .

 H. Song and P. Flach (2021) 
 Efficient and robust model benchmarks with item response theory and adaptive testing .
 
 International Journal of Interactive Multimedia and Artificial Intelligence .
 
 Cited by: §A.3 .

 [. Srivastava et al. (2022) 
 Beyond the imitation game: quantifying and extrapolating the capabilities of language models .
 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.04615 .
 
 Cited by: §A.1 .

 A. Wang, Y. Pruksachatkun, N. Nangia, A. Singh, J. Michael, and S. R. Bowman (2019) 
 SuperGLUE: a stickier benchmark for general-purpose language understanding systems .
 
 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) Workshop ,
 
 External Links: Link 
 
 Cited by: §A.1 .

 A. Wang, A. Singh, J. Michael, F. Hill, O. Levy, and S. R. Bowman (2018) 
 GLUE: a multi-task benchmark and analysis platform for natural language understanding .
 
 In International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) ,
 
 External Links: Link 
 
 Cited by: §A.1 .

 H. Wijk, T. Lin, J. Becker, S. Jawhar, N. Parikh, T. Broadley, L. Chan, M. Chen, J. Clymer, J. Dhyani, et al. (2024) 
 RE-Bench: evaluating frontier AI R D capabilities of language model agents against human experts .
 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.15114 .
 
 Cited by: §A.1 ,
 §B.1.2 ,
 §C.1.2 ,
 §E.4 ,
 §1.1 ,
 §1 ,
 §1 ,
 item 2 ,
 §2.1 ,
 Table 1 .

 F. F. Xu, Y. Song, B. Li, Y. Tang, K. Jain, M. Bao, Z. Z. Wang, X. Zhou, Z. Guo, M. Cao, et al. (2024) 
 TheAgentCompany: benchmarking llm agents on consequential real world tasks .
 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.14161 .
 
 Cited by: §1.1 ,
 footnote 18 .

 F. Yan, H. Mao, C. C. Ji, T. Zhang, S. G. Patil, I. Stoica, and J. E. Gonzalez (2024) 
 Berkeley function calling leaderboard .
 
 Note: https://gorilla.cs.berkeley.edu/blogs/8_berkeley_function_calling_leaderboard.html 
 
 Cited by: §1.1 .

 S. Yao, J. Zhao, D. Yu, N. Du, I. Shafran, K. Narasimhan, and Y. Cao (2023) 
 ReAct: synergizing reasoning and acting in language models .
 
 External Links: 2210.03629 ,
 Link 
 
 Cited by: §C.3.1 .

 R. Zellers, A. Holtzman, Y. Bisk, A. Farhadi, and Y. Choi (2019) 
 HellaSwag: can a machine really finish your sentence? .
 
 In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics ,
 
 pp. 4791–4800 .
 
 Cited by: footnote 1 .

 A. K. Zhang, N. Perry, R. Dulepet, J. Ji, C. Menders, J. W. Lin, E. Jones, G. Hussein, S. Liu, D. Jasper, et al. (2024) 
 Cybench: a framework for evaluating cybersecurity capabilities and risks of language models .
 
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.08926 .
 
 Cited by: §A.2 .

 D. Zielinski (2019) 
 How to optimize onboarding .
 
 Society for Human Resource Management .
 
 Note: Accessed on March 17, 2025 
 
 External Links: Link 
 
 Cited by: footnote 9 .

 Appendix A Expanded Related work 

 Below, we expand on our discussion of related work in Section  1.1 . 

 A.1 Agent and capability benchmarks 

 The evaluation of AI capabilities has evolved significantly from single-task benchmarks to complex, multi-step evaluations designed to assess agent-like behavior. While traditional benchmarks such as GLUE [ Wang et al. , 2018 ] , SuperGLUE [ Wang et al. , 2019 ] , and MMLU [ Hendrycks et al. , 2020 ] have provided valuable insights into language model performance, they primarily measure static knowledge rather than the dynamic problem-solving capabilities essential for real-world applications.
Recent work has developed more complex agent benchmarks. AgentBench [ Liu et al. , 2023 ] evaluates agents across diverse environments including web browsing, coding, and game playing. MLAgentBench [ Huang et al. , 2024 ] and MLEBench [ Chan et al. , 2024 ] focus specifically on machine learning research tasks, while ToolBench [ Qin et al. , 2023 , Guo et al. , 2024 ] assesses tool use capabilities. The recent ZeroBench [ Roberts et al. , 2025 ] involve difficult reasoning, but in the context of visual puzzles rather than economically valuable tasks. Other noteworthy benchmarks include GAIA [ Mialon et al. , 2024 ] , which evaluates reasoning across multiple modalities, and BIG-bench [ Srivastava and others , 2022 ] , which contains hundreds of diverse tasks including many requiring multi-step reasoning. 

 Software engineering has emerged as a particularly informative domain for evaluating AI capabilities. HumanEval [ Chen et al. , 2021 ] and MBPP [ Austin et al. , 2021 ] provide programming challenges of varying complexity, while more complex benchmarks like SWE-bench [ Jimenez et al. , 2024 ] and APPS [ Hendrycks et al. , 2021 ] test more sophisticated programming abilities. We use SWE-bench Verified [ Chowdhury et al. , 2024 ] ’s human time estimates for task completion in our work. RE-Bench [ Wijk et al. , 2024 ] , which we use in this work, evaluates models on complex research engineering tasks that may require hours of human effort and compares AI performance to human machine learning engineers. SWE-Lancer [ Miserendino et al. , 2025 ] generates tasks 

 While these benchmarks provide valuable insights into specific capabilities, they often lack a unified metric that allows for tracking progress over time and comparing models of vastly different capabilities. Our time horizon approach aims to address this gap by providing a continuous metric that can be used to measure progress across different capability levels. 

 A.2 Forecasting AI progress 

 Quantitative forecasting of AI progress has employed various approaches, often starting with the observation that the compute used in AI training has increased dramatically over time. Amodei and Hernandez [ 2018 ] observed that AI training compute usage has been increasing exponentially, doubling approximately every 3.4 months between 2012 and 2018; Epoch AI [ 2024 ] included more recent data as well as trends in training dataset size and energy usage. 

 Other work has studied how AI performance has increased over time, relating benchmark performance to release date, compute usage, and other inputs. Sevilla et al. [ 2022 ] found that compute usage growth rate increased at the start of the “deep learning era” in 2010, coinciding with increases in performance. More recently, Owen [ 2024 ] and Pimpale et al. [ 2025 ] use compute and other metrics to forecast future benchmark performance. 

 Several recent efforts have been made to contextualize AI benchmark performance. One such effort is the annual AI Index Report [ Maslej et al. , 2024 ] , which tracks performance across various benchmarks, including the date at which models achieved human-level performance.
 Murray et al. [ 2025 ] had cybersecurity experts relate AI performance on Cybench [ Zhang et al. , 2024 ] to the ability to autonomously develop malware. Phuong et al. [ 2024 ] commissioned professional forecasters to predict whether AI ranks amongst top public concerns by 2030, conditioned on benchmark performance.
These efforts generally lack a unified, quantitative metric for cross-benchmark comparison. 

 Carlsmith [ 2020 ] and Cotra [ 2020 ] developed the “bio-anchors” framework, in which they related the compute involved in training AI models to the “effective horizon length” of tasks required for AI to have transformative impacts. Ngo [ 2023 ] proposed using the time horizon for which AI systems outperform most human experts at most tasks to measure general AI capabilities. In our work, we empirically evaluate the relationship between task duration and AI agent success rate, which we convert into a quantitative metric of AI agent performance. 

 A.3 Psychometric methods and Item Response Theory 

 Our methodological approach draws inspiration from psychometric testing, particularly Item Response Theory (IRT) [ Baker , 2001 ] , which models the relationship between latent traits (such as ability) and observed responses to test items. In traditional IRT, item difficulty is a parameter in a logistic model predicting response correctness based on respondent ability. Our approach inverts this, using task completion time (a proxy for difficulty) to predict AI performance.
Our methodology also relates to difficulty estimation techniques in educational testing [ de Ayala , 2017 ] , where multiple metrics including completion time are used to estimate the difficulty of tasks. IRT has been applied to machine learning classifiers by Martínez-Plumed et al. [ 2019 ] , and was used to design efficient benchmarks in Song and Flach [ 2021 ] . 

 Appendix B Task suite details 

 As with most benchmarks, the three task suites we study were designed to isolate a specific unit of work that can be reliably accomplished within a time limit. This usually means that the tasks require much less context than the average task in the middle of a larger project. 10 10 10 We define context as information that experienced employees use to complete a task which is not explicitly in the task description or possessed by most external experts. For example, when fixing a bug in a software package, the package’s maintainer may use their experience with past bugs in the same package to guess at the bug’s cause, fluency with the codebase to find the bug, and knowledge of their organization’s priorities to decide whether to apply a quick patch or a more thorough fix. We discuss possible effects of context in Section  4 . We confirmed that all tasks were possible given the instructions provided by having humans successfully complete each task at least once. 11 11 11 As many of these attempts were done by in-house staff or were done using different methodology, we exclude these attempts from our human bas