# FULL TEXT — Beyond Code Generation: LLM-supported Exploration of the Program Design Space

https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.06911v1

Beyond Code Generation: LLM-supported Exploration of the Program Design Space 

 1 Introduction 
 
 2 Related Work 
 
 2.1 Program Design Processes; Sketching and Comparing Alternatives 
 2.2 AI Assistance for Programming and Design 
 2.3 Workflows Integrating LLMs in Complex Tasks 

 3 Designing Pail 
 
 3.1 Design Process 
 3.2 Formative Study 
 3.3 Design Goals 
 
 3.4 System Design 
 
 3.4.1 System Design Non-Goals 

 3.5 Pail Implementation 
 
 3.5.1 Speculative Assessment 
 3.5.2 Differential Updates to Code 
 3.5.3 Differential Updates to Design Artifacts 

 4 Pail Usage: An Example 
 
 5 User Study Procedure 
 
 5.1 Interview Protocol 
 5.2 Tasks 
 5.3 Participants 
 5.4 Analysis Evaluation 

 6 Findings 

 6.1 Use of Pail ’s Design Support 

 6.1.1 Abstracting Up Problem Exploration 
 
 Reflection 

 6.1.2 A Working Sketch: First Contact Rapid Iteration 
 
 Reflection 

 6.1.3 The Design Panel, Alternatives, and Rationales 
 
 Reflection 

 6.2 Stumbles, Mismatches in Participants’ Design Processes 
 
 6.2.1 Re-considering Design Problems 
 6.2.2 Content Generation and Overwhelming Information 
 6.2.3 Application of Reflection and Design Agents 
 6.2.4 Attention, Expertise, and the Cost of Awareness 

 7 Discussion 
 
 7.1 Defining Goals, Exploring Problem Spaces 
 7.2 Design Practices: Time Compression 
 7.3 Managing “More Information” vs. “Better Information” 

 8 Limitations and Future Work 
 9 Conclusion 
 10 Disclosure 

 Beyond Code Generation:
 LLM-supported Exploration of the Program Design Space 

 J.D. Zamfirescu-Pereira
 
 zamfi@berkeley.edu 
 
 UC Berkeley Berkeley CA USA 
 
 ,  
 Eunice Jun
 
 emjun@cs.ucla.edu 
 
 UCLA Los Angeles CA USA 
 
 ,  
 Michael Terry
 
 michaelterry@google.com 
 
 Google DeepMind Cambridge MA USA 
 
 ,  
 Qian Yang
 
 qianyang@cornell.edu 
 
 Cornell University Ithaca NY USA 
 
  and  
 Björn Hartmann
 
 bjoern@eecs.berkeley.edu 
 
 UC Berkeley Berkeley CA USA 

 (2025) 
 
 Abstract. 
 In this work, we explore explicit Large Language Model (LLM)-powered support for the iterative design of computer programs. Program design, like other design activity, is characterized by navigating a space of alternative problem formulations and associated solutions in an iterative fashion. LLMs are potentially powerful tools in helping this exploration; however, by default, code-generation LLMs deliver code that represents a particular point solution. This obscures the larger space of possible alternatives, many of which might be preferable to the LLM’s default interpretation and its generated code. We contribute an IDE that supports program design through generating and showing new ways to frame problems alongside alternative solutions, tracking design decisions, and identifying implicit decisions made by either the programmer or the LLM.
In a user study, we find that with our IDE, users combine and parallelize design phases to explore a broader design space—but also struggle to keep up with LLM-originated changes to code and other information overload. These findings suggest a core challenge for future IDEs that support program design through higher-level instructions given to LLM-based agents: carefully managing attention and deciding what information agents should surface to program designers and when. 
 
 Program design, Code generation, Design space exploration, Generative AI, LLMs
 
 † † journalyear: 2025 † † copyright: rightsretained † † conference: CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems; April 26-May 1, 2025; Yokohama, Japan † † booktitle: CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI ’25), April 26-May 1, 2025, Yokohama, Japan † † doi: 10.1145/3706598.3714154 † † isbn: 979-8-4007-1394-1/25/04 † † ccs: Human-centered computing Empirical studies in HCI † † ccs: Human-centered computing Natural language interfaces † † ccs: Human-centered computing Interaction design † † ccs: Computing methodologies Artificial intelligence 

 Figure 1 . Today, LLM-powered programming assistance resembles a repeating cycle of “prompt”-to-“code” (left) by re-running generation with every prompt change. Pail , our IDE (right), instead encourages developers to abstract up, pulling them towards a deeper understanding of the problem space through an exploration of alternative problem formulations and solutions. Throughout this exploration, Pail tracks design goals, changing requirements, and surfaces implicit decisions—but the breadth and depth of information Pail generates can be overwhelming. 
 \Description 

 1. Introduction 
 
 A common vision of future computer programming relies on Large Language Models (LLMs) to do it all: identify requirements, write code and tests, perform simulated QA testing, deploy, etc. We are making rapid progress towards this vision on many fronts  (Hong et al . , 2023 ; Di Fede et al . , 2022 ; noa, 2024a ; Chen et al . , 2021 ; Si et al . , 2024 ) . Yet the role of the human in this process is under-explored. In the predominant view, humans will be limited to setting an initial goal, possibly clarifying a few questions asked, and then rating the output. For some changes to the goal or generated code, the process will restart from, approximately, scratch. Many versions of this vision exist: some scale up the “autocomplete,” CoPilot-like  (GitHub, 2021 ) interactions relying on recognition-over-recall  (Nielsen, [n. d.] ) , others scale up the “chat”  (noa, 2024a ) or focus on providing point solutions  (Hong et al . , 2023 ) . 

 While these visions best suit an understanding of program design as starting with one known goal, program design in fact involves a design process iterating on both the implementation details and design goals. For instance, a journalist may begin an analysis with the goal of assessing a relationship between two variables but then in the process of exploring possible visualizations realize that one of the variables has a lot of missing data. As a result, the journalist can pivot to assess another pair of relationships or consider alternative visualizations and statistical analyses to triangulate the initial relationship of interest. Similarly, a game creator faces questions of narrative, characters, interactions. Even a straightforward backend engineering task (e.g., storage system selection) requires consideration of trade-offs (e.g., latency, consistency, scale) that ultimately require refining the higher-level goals of the task (e.g., terms of a latency service agreement). 

 Viewing programming as a design activity illuminates the human’s need for tighter iterative loops and more fine-grained control than implied by the predominant vision. Design activity begins with consideration of different problem formulations before solutions are even discussed—as captured iconically by the Double Diamond (see, e.g.,  (Council, 2004 ) ), which we adapt to illustrate our targeted capabilities, in Figure  2 . Designers test high-level hypotheses (e.g., around user needs, or problem urgency) with sketches and prototypes before expending engineering effort. All these explorations feed back into a better understanding of the problem and solution design spaces—but take time, and are often limited by human availability and cost. Temptingly, LLMs promise a near-free pool of “cognitive resources” that could in theory complement human cognition to improve the experience of designing and programming interactive artifacts and improve the final artifacts’ overall quality—by using LLMs to complement human limitations on time and cost, and using humans to overcome LLMs’ limitations on domain expertise and end-user understanding. We explore this promise in this work. 

 Through a formative study of creating small interactive sketches using ChatGPT 1 1 1 https://www.chatgpt.com/ and Claude, 2 2 2 https://www.claude.ai/ we find that (1) working through a user-centered design process in chat alone leads to lost requirements and a lot of scrolling through to find prior questions, decisions, and discussions, and (2) individual point solutions—without consideration of alternatives—lead to significant anchoring bias. Combining these findings with knowledge from prior work in AI assistance for design, we develop the Pail IDE. 

 Pail embeds a chat agent with two other LLM-based agents into an integrated environment to facilitate higher-level consideration of design choices while programming with LLMs, enabling users to design and iterate on programs while working at higher levels of abstraction than the code itself. At the highest level, Pail elicits design alternatives, rationales, and prompts to guide users toward user-centered design principles. Pail also speculatively proposes and explores alternative problem and solution formulations, generating interactive prototypes to support epistemic goals through testing and other assessment. At the most granular level, Pail tracks requirements and implicit decisions made by the (black-box) LLM without user input, surfacing abstractions to establish common ground and clarify understanding. As an IDE, Pail also allows users to directly edit the code itself, providing full control over implementation details. 

 Through a lab study with 11 participants, we use Pail as a probe to understand the benefits, limitations, and some future challenges for LLM-powered programming tools’ support for program design. Pail helps participants consider their audience and communication goals; participants express appreciation for having a direct summary and for the ability to manipulate those decisions in situ, and 100% of participants find at least one unconsidered alternative that influenced their design work. Further, we find that rapid code generation allows actual executable interactive programs to fit into a sketch role: a cheap, “disposable,”  (Buxton, 2010 ) epistemological artifact, rather than a work-in-progress prototype representing an investment of time and resources—an ability that is suggestive of an altered program design process. Finally, our findings suggest an emerging issue in managing user attention: as more agents and UI affordances lay claim to being helpful and are integrated into developer environments and workflows, these tools will also need to competently balance user attentional capacities and desire for agency. We discuss these observations’ implications for future tools supporting programming and other design activities, and suggest opportunities for further research. 

 This paper makes three contributions: First, it describes Pail , a prototype IDE that introduces a new set of interactions extending chat to support program design activity at higher levels of abstraction. Second, it offers a rich description of how and when Pail ’s design support is useful (and not) for creating interactive software prototypes. Lastly, it identifies core upcoming challenges for a future of programming in which programmers relay abstract instructions to LLM agents that synthesize code: these agents will, critically, need to manage and direct user attention, keeping users abreast of AI-initiated changes and carefully considering what information to show. 

 Figure 2 . Pail ’s capabilities overlaid on the UK Design Council’s Double Diamond  (Council, 2004 ) . Building beyond a “prompt”-to-“code” view of LLM code generation (top), Pail (bottom) embeds this capability within an IDE that supports developers through a larger design process: by abstracting up from a specific problem to a higher-level one, exploring alternative problems and alternative solutions, tracking design goals and requirements, and surfacing implicit decisions (green boxes). 
 \Description 

 2. Related Work 
 
 Our work draws on empirical studies and theories of design and recent work on LLMs for creative tasks. Here, we review prior work on systems for sketching and comparing alternatives within design processes; the nascent area of LLM-powered programming assistance as well as pre-LLM approaches; and, lastly, approaches to making better use of LLMs in structured complex tasks. 

 2.1. Program Design Processes; Sketching and Comparing Alternatives 
 
 In the fields of design and HCI, the process of designing is characterized by exploring the space of solutions and iteratively reformulating the problem to solve. Sketching, a form of rapid prototyping for quickly exploring the essential dimensions of a solution space, is a widely accepted, studied, and practiced tool for thought  (Buxton, 2010 ; Landay and Myers, 1995 ) —serving in part to help designers explore alternatives, sometimes even in parallel  (Dow et al . , 2010 ) . Described by Buxton as distinct from prototyping , sketching aims to evoke, rather than describe. A prototype is often constructed for a specific goal, such as to explore how an artifact might work, look and feel, or relate to other components of a system  (Houde and Hill, 1997 ) , and can be considered a “work in progress” in the sense that it is meant to faithfully reproduce that aspect of a final artifact, perhaps even to confirm a particular design decision, and as such represents an investment of effort (and potentially materials). A sketch, in contrast, is meant to be quick, disposable and plentiful, suggestive, and serves more of a “cognitive offloading” role to build a shared understanding  (Buxton, 2010 ) . 

 In divergent, exploratory phases of the program design process, programmers also often engage in Exploratory Programming   (Beth Kery and Myers, 2017 ; Sheil, 1986 ) , writing code as a medium to prototype with different ideas, with an open-ended goal and no existing specification. In such a phase, programmers may engage in Opportunistic Programming   (Brandt et al . , 2009a , b ) , a form of programming in which speed and ease are prioritized over robustness, maintainability, or other engineering goals. Copied code found on the web is a common hallmark—and today’s LLMs’ code generation capabilities provide a new venue for finding code to incorporate into a prototype. 

 Considering and examining alternatives, in these phases an explicit activity forming part of the design process, has a long history in HCI too: recent examinations in the context of prompting text-to-image models like Promptify   (Brade et al . , 2023 ) and Dreamsheets   (Almeda et al . , 2024 ) echo prior systems like Kery et al’s Variolite and Verdant for computational notebooks  (Kery et al . , 2017 , 2019 ) , Hartmann et al’s Juxtapose system for exploring alternatives in parallel in code  (Hartmann et al . , 2008 ) , and Terry et al.’s Parallel Paths approach for parameterized vector art  (Terry et al . , 2004 ) . These systems in turn trace their lineages back to Marks et al’s Design Galleries  (Marks et al . , 1997 ) for expensive-to-generate computer images, and are complemented by a set of theory-driven work aimed at understanding how and why these processes help designers  (Lunzer and Hornbæk, 2008 ; Rawn et al . , 2023 ) .
These systems and studies all point to parallel exploration and tracking of alternatives as a well-established, essential process in exploratory programming  (Kery, 2017 ) . 

 2.2. AI Assistance for Programming and Design 
 
 Our work here also builds on two major threads of research in AI assistance: assistance for programming, and assistance for design. On the programming side, the biggest impact comes from autocomplete-focused assistance through tools like CoPilot  (GitHub, 2021 ) , which has been extensively studied  (Barke et al . , 2023 ; Prather et al . , 2023 ; Denny et al . , 2023 ) and shown to serve both “recognition-over-recall”  (Nielsen, [n. d.] ) and epistemic (e.g., “oh, I didn’t know about list comprehension in Python!”) goals  (Barke et al . , 2023 ) . Other work has explored how LLMs can be used in the service of design processes for creative coding  (Angert et al . , 2023 ) , data analysis  (McNutt et al . , 2023 ; Liu et al . , 2023 ; Lam et al . , 2024 ; Gu et al . , 2024 ) , and even, circularly, for the assessment of LLM outputs themselves  (Shankar et al . , 2024 ) . 

 Pre-LLM work in both AI assistance  (Chen et al . , 2016 ) and the usability of code synthesis  (Jayagopal et al . , 2022 ; Lubin et al . , 2019 ) is also relevant here, offering insight into the kinds of assistance programmers are looking for: support for writing mundane boilerplate or glue code, for reasoning, and for rapid iteration. Traditional code synthesis has found uses in a number of ways, most notably for HCI through a line of work on programming by demonstration—often repeated demonstrations following a feedback-driven design process, in the service of spreadsheet formula construction  (Gulwani, 2011 ) and web scraping and automation  (Li et al . , 2017 ; Barman et al . , 2016 ) . 

 This empirical work is complemented by a set of theoretical, speculative, and design-oriented work around the opportunities and challenges of effectively instructing AI systems and designing both with and through them. These include studies of prompting  (Zamfirescu-Pereira et al . , 2023a , b ; Liu and Chilton, 2022 ) , impacts of current LLMs on creative design processes  (Anderson et al . , 2024 ; Suh et al . , 2023 ) speculative future design processes  (Vaithilingam et al . , 2024 ) , new conceptual models (e.g.,  (Terry et al . , 2023 ; Subramonyam et al . , 2024 ) ), and questions of agency (e.g.,  (Lawton et al . , 2023 ) ) and perception (e.g.,  (Khadpe et al . , 2020 ) ). This body of work emphasizes the extent to which iteration is critical to design, especially when working with black-box models, that evaluating LLM outputs for correctness is challenging due to intrinsic unpredictability, and that steering LLMs benefits from understanding how LLMs go about performing the tasks a user asks them to perform. 

 2.3. Workflows Integrating LLMs in Complex Tasks 
 
 In order to take advantage of LLMs’ capabilities to perform simple tasks well and apply them to more complex tasks, researchers have explored workflows that integrate LLMs. Wu et al. proposed chaining as a technique for connecting LLM calls to each other  (Wu et al . , 2022 ) . Building on this interaction model, Arawjo et al. developed ChainForge  (Arawjo et al . , 2023 ) , an interface for composing LLM prompts and assessing the results of prompts. Exploring alternatives to linear composition, Kazemitabaar et al.  (Kazemitabaar et al . , 2024 ) compare two different forms of task composition: (i) phase-wise decomposition which batches steps together and (ii) step-wise decomposition which iterates on each step piecewise. Across this work, a common finding is that systems need to scaffold LLM usage in order for users across experience levels to make the most of an LLM’s capabilities. 

 This set of work also shows us that individual interventions to aid in design, in organization, in evaluation, and in grounding assumptions can all be helpful. Here, we aim to shed some light on what challenges will arise when we begin to build more complex cognitive support tools that integrate multiple of these affordances into a single system. Indeed, research in the AI community has shifted towards developing cognitive architectures for coordinating multiple agents  (Sumers et al . , 2024 ) , even to complement each other’s strengths and weaknesses  (Hong et al . , 2023 ) . 

 3. Designing Pail 

 Through this work, we aim to understand how explicit design support can impact programmers’ design and prototyping processes. We adopt a Research through Design  (Zimmerman et al . , 2007 ) approach and develop Pail , a web-based IDE for programming p5.js sketches, to probe into what programming with LLMs could look like in the future. 

 3.1. Design Process 
 
 We developed Pail iteratively based on the described prior work and a formative study. Throughout our design process, we discussed and incorporated feedback among the co-authors. 

 Two practical considerations constrained our tool and study design spaces upfront; these led us to focus primarily on experienced programmers making small interactive prototypes for personal or (non-deployment) professional use: 

 First, the current fidelity of LLM code synthesis limits the complexity of the programs that can be effectively constructed or iterated upon by these models with limited human intervention—but we expect new models to continue to develop these capabilities. To avoid having our observations unduly influenced by today’s model failure modes, we target smaller programs that can be fully included in LLM context windows, in a language (JavaScript) and using a framework ( p5.js ) that are well-represented in LLMs’ training data. 

 Second, we are interested specifically in design support , not necessarily in supporting end-users learning how to program—there is plenty of great work in that area already. Thus, we primarily target participants with a strong understanding of programming. 

 3.2. Formative Study 
 
 We conducted a formative study to identify challenges that emerge when following common design processes for program design using an LLM-powered chatbot. We recruited five participants from within the HCI and Design-focused groups at our institution, with a range of experiences creating interactive software prototypes. All participants were students in their final two years of undergraduate education or doctoral students. 

 Over each of six weeks, a subset of participants used ChatGPT or Claude to produce p5.js code prototypes for a variety of interactive programs, running those prototypes by copy-and-pasting any generated code into a standard p5.js environment. 3 3 3 https://editor.p5js.org We chose ChatGPT and Claude for our study rather than GitHub CoPilot or other AI copilots because the latter tools do not provide design guidance nor engage in requirement elicitation, and require users to engage with code rather than higher-level abstractions. 

 Our pariticipants’ interactive programs ranged from basic games and simulations (e.g., a fashion simulator that lets you try on—virtually—images of clothing) to showcases for artwork, aggregators for real estate listings, and other sensemaking tasks. Occasionally, participants were asked to create an interactive artifact for someone else , or asked to observe someone not related to the study using ChatGPT or Claude for the first time. 

 Our formative study participants observed that tracking the outcomes of design discussions was a major challenge, as these discussions rapidly disappeared into chat history and became very challenging to find or recall—and, as decisions receded into the chat history further, the models themselves were also less likely to consider them in future iterations of the design. Additionally, both ChatGPT and Claude limited their responses to one of (1) a single point solution paired with a description of that solution, without discussion of trade-offs or alternative solutions, or (2) several possible solutions, paired with a description, but not comparing solutions with each other or discussing trade-offs among them. 

 Participants expressed an appreciation for being able to quickly generate code to test out ideas, but found it challenging to later identify those experiments or revert to the code used for them. Participants also reported feeling unsure about the code the LLMs generated, looking at it relatively rarely—the common iterative loop consisted of running the generated code and asking the LLM directly to fix any observed errors, rather than reviewing the code directly for errors. Conspicuously lacking was support for an understanding of the generated code, beyond the high-level overviews produced by the LLMs—overviews which lacked mention or explanation of critical decisions or assumptions made by the LLM. Even when these were provided, they were typically buried within paragraphs of overview, requiring a close read to find, and participants almost never read these explanations closely because of a low signal-to-noise ratio. 

 Lastly, those participants who mediated a program generation exercise for someone else reported spending substantial time identifying what needs that user had, and then synthesizing solutions for those needs. These activities required more concrete epistemic goals in prototyping. 

 3.3. Design Goals 
 
 From our formative study, we distilled a set of four design goals. 

 DG1 
 DG1 : Pail should provide explicit support for generating, keeping track of, and comparing alternative designs. 

 DG2 
 DG2 : Pail should extract and track task requirements and decisions explicitly, outside of the primary conversation dialogue, to keep these salient and visible to both the human designer and the LLM that is generating code. 

 DG3 
 DG3 : Pail should take reasonable steps to help users avoid reading the program code, keeping them at their desired level of abstraction in communicating in terms of functionality and goals—including by surfacing, in natural language, decision points that exist only implicitly in the code. 

 DG4 
 DG4 : Pail should help users consider the needs and goals of the ultimate users of the programs being designed. 

 We considered several possible designs for showcasing alternatives (  DG1 DG1 ) and version histories in early prototypes of Pail , including a Git-like “commit” structure inspired by Litt  (Litt, 2024 ) . We ultimately selected a lightweight “pull” model influenced by Kery et al’s observation that, in data science workflows, “versioning” in the traditional software sense can be too heavyweight to be useful  (Kery et al . , 2019 ) . We also decided that, as suggested by Lunzer et al.  (Lunzer and Hornbæk, 2008 ) , Pail should offer prospective (speculative) comparisons of possible alternatives, not only retrospective comparisons of selected alternatives. As a result, we implemented Pail to suggest alternatives whenever possible (  DG1 DG1 ). 

 To help ensure that user communications at a high level of abstraction were likely to refer to concepts the LLM also had a handle on, and based on recent findings in cognitive science on the discovery and usage of abstractions in conversation, we incorporated an explicit mechanism for grounding specific jargon with a textual description (  DG3 DG3 ). For example, consider a puzzle game with a specific win condition: explicitly calling out “Win Condition,” with a description of what that phrase means, offers users both a specific name to refer to this concept, and confirmation that both the user and Pail are using that phrase to refer to the same sort of underlying concept. 

 A second affordance aimed at a maintaining a level of abstraction higher than code is a set of individual code change summaries, in natural language text, that accompany any code change Pail suggests. Incorporating this explicit mechanism for tracking code changes at a higher level allows users to avoid the “context switch” of shifting their thinking mode from design considerations, to code, and back again. 

 Lastly, explicitly surfacing “implicit” decisions (necessarily) made by the LLM when it synthesizes code in response to an ambiguous request provides a mechanism for considering these decisions and generating possible alternatives (  DG2 DG2 ,  DG3 DG3 ). These decisions can be critical to a design, and include decisions about how to represent data, like user progress through an application, or how to operationalize certain constraints, like how to validate a “win condition” in a game. In our formative study, we found that unsurfaced decisions were discussed only when these decisions had a visible impact the user noticed and chose to inquire about, but constrained the future design space regardless—so we chose to make them explicit here. 

 3.4. System Design 
 
 What emerged from our design process was the need for two sets of entities: a set of “agents” that engage with the user directly (such as the ConversationAgent ) or indirectly through UI affordances (such as the DesignAgent and ReflectionsAgent ). These agents are complemented with a set of “views” (see below) aggregated into a “design panel” on the right-hand side of Pail (see Figure  3 ). 

 The design panel is Pail ’s primary differentiating feature offering a consistent interface to four design aids, represented as four subsections to the panel, shown in Figure  3 : 

 (1) 
 
 DQs 
 DQs Design Questions Goals : this section tracks the kinds of questions an interaction designer would ask when designing a new interactive piece, including problem formulations, 

 (2) 
 
 Reqs 
 Reqs Confirmed Requirements : this section tracks decisions that the human has made or confirmed. 

 (3) 
 
 Decs 
 Decs Implicit Decisions : this section identifies and surfaces decisions the LLM has implemented in the code without explicit confirmation, such as choices regarding how data is structured, or how displayed values are calculated. 

 (4) 
 
 UAbs 
 UAbs Useful Abstractions : this section offers grounding terminology, alongside one-sentence descriptions, for the user and the AI to validate that they are referring to the same concepts when they use project-related language. 

 Figure 3 . An overview of Pail ’s user interface and related agents. Pail engages users in defining and refining (   DQs DQs ) design goals, including target audience and desired impact, while tracking (   Reqs Reqs ) confirmed requirements and (   Decs Decs ) decisions implicit in an LLM’s synthesized code, surfacing (   UAbs UAbs ) useful abstractions, and offering explanations and alternatives across the program design space. A full-scale reproduction of the design pane’s four views appears in Figure  4(d) . 
 \Description 

 A snapshot of the design panel. 

 Each of these subsections contains a list of items generated by the ReflectionsAgent in response to the ongoing conversation in the chat panel, described below. Each item in the design panel includes a justification (“rationale”) for that item as well as 2-3 possible “alternatives.” Any alternatives, except some that the ReflectionsAgent identifies as important, are hidden behind an accordion-style view, revealed only when the enclosing item is clicked. 

 In one study participant’s project, within the   DQs DQs Design Questions Goals section, appears the item “What themes or characters would be most engaging for a 6-year-old?” accompanied by the rationale “Engaging themes and characters can make learning more enjoyable and effective.” and the alternatives “Animals”, “Superheroes”, and “Fantasy worlds with magical creatures”. Finally, each of these alternatives, in turn, is then speculatively assessed by the DesignAgent , which populates each alternative with a sentence about possible cost/benefit trade-offs of that choice. For “Fantasy worlds with magical creatures,” for example, the trade-off text is “Stimulates imagination; may distract from educational content.” A   Try Try button next to the alternative triggers the DesignAgent to go ahead and make that change. A screenshot of the four sections of the design panel appears in Figure  4(d) . (An additional   Revert Revert button appears in response to clicking   Try Try , which restores the original code in the IDE; not shown.) 

 The design panel is located as the rightmost of Pail ’s four main panels (see Figure  3 ): a code panel, an output panel (with a console for errors and printed output), a chat panel, and the design panel. The code panel allows users to view and directly modify any project code, and uses a common in-browser code editor, Monaco, 4 4 4 https://microsoft.github.io/monaco-editor/ containing p5.js 5 5 5 https://p5js.org code that is then run and displayed in the output panel. 

 The chat panel is the interface to a prompted GPT-4o-based chatbot ( ConversationAgent ) that can read the project code, patch it, or entirely replace it. Changes to code are summarized within the chat, displayed in “diff” form, and then propagated directly to the code panel, which shows a holistic “diff” over the prior iteration of the project. The ConversationAgent itself is prompted to explicitly guide users through a focused User-Centered Design  (noa, 2024b ) process: identifying target users, evaluating their needs, assessing possible goals for the project given users’ communicated design ideas, and finally generating code for prototypes to test any hypotheses generated through this conversational design process. 

 The design panel and chat panel operate in a tightly integrated way: conversations in the chat trigger the ReflectionsAgent to update the design panel’s contents, while manipulations in the design panel (i.e., trying a specific alternative) trigger code changes via speculative (i.e., uncommitted) executions through the ConversationAgent by the DesignAgent . 

 3.4.1. System Design Non-Goals 
 
 Equally important to the design of Pail is what we did not include. Because our focus is on design process support, Pail does not provide assistance with debugging or handling nonfunctional LLM-synthesized code, nor any kind of automated QA or simulated user testing, two areas worth considering for an AI-assisted IDE. We leave investigation of these topics to future work. 

 3.5. Pail Implementation 

 (a) The   DQs DQs Design Questions Goals section. 

 (b) The   Decs Decs Implicit Decisions section. 

 (c) The   Reqs Reqs Confirmed Requirements section. 

 (d) The   UAbs UAbs Useful Abstractions section. 

 Figure 4 . A screenshot of the contents of each of the four components of the design panel, from P9. The third question in   DQs DQs Design Questions Goals (a) (“How can we effectively […]?”) is expanded to show the rationale for that question along with three alternatives. The mouse hover over the third alternative (“Crowdsource […]”) reveals a speculated trade-off for trying that option. In Pail , these four sections are organized vertically in the design panel. Items with a finger are important , dotted underlines allow hover (see (a) ) for trade-offs. Green background and red strikethrough indicate recent changes. 
 \Description 

 A snapshot of the design panel. Some alternatives are identified by the ReflectionsAgent as important; these are shown under the “Maybe:” heading, inline without expansion. 

 Pail is implemented as a React single-page application, proxying calls to GPT-4o through a node.js backend that logs all requests. The code editor uses Microsoft’s Monaco 6 6 6 https://microsoft.github.io/monaco-editor/ editor configured to display code differences inline. The chat component is a custom-built turn-taking component for user communication with the ConversationAgent ; it shows chat messages as well as summaries of any code changes made by the ConversationAgent alongside diffs with any changed code. 

 We chose the Monaco editor (a component from VS Code) specifically because of its overall flexibility and support for showing “diffs” of code inline. This code is run using the p5.js library run alongside an HTML Canvas element enclosde within an iframe element, using the loop-protect library 7 7 7 https://www.npmjs.com/package/loop-protect to prevent infinite loops from interrupting event processing in the browser. The iframe’s console object (used to report errors to developers) is proxied through the browser’s postMessage API to allows p5.js errors and other console messages to pass through to the IDE. 

 A few technically challenging parts of Pail ’s implementation are worth noting. 

 3.5.1. Speculative Assessment 
 
 The code and design panel JSON structures are stored as separate “artifacts” in versioned flat files by the node.js server. To improve latency and offer an a priori indication of the impact a particular change might make the DesignAgent speculatively assess a subset of identified alternatives to design panel items. 

 These speculative assessments vary in scope; depending on the nature of the alternative, this could include: (1) how that alternative might impact   DQs DQs design goals, such as considerations of target users; (2) what additional   Reqs Reqs requirements that alternative might reveal; and (3) any new   DQs DQs design questions that may emerge from consideration of that alternative. Figure  3 shows how agents and artifacts influence one another. 

 3.5.2. Differential Updates to Code 
 
 At the time Pail was created, LLMs excelled at generating full files worth of code, but did not have a mechanism for incrementally updating existing code. Because Pail is premised on rapid iteration across levels of abstraction, we decided it was important to have such a mechanism, so that users could ask for a small tweak (e.g., “can we make the small rectangles blue?”) and have that change implemented quickly. Other systems like Claude’s Artifacts and ChatGPT’s Canvas rewrite the full code from scratch each time, which is not only slow, but also often includes other, unrelated changes to the code—a complaint we also heard in our formative study. 

 Obvious solutions we tried, like asking an LLM to output a code change in diff or unified diff format, failed frequently: line numbers wouldn’t match up, edits were interleaved with both old and new code, and new code was sometimes inserted in the wrong place altogether. These errors align with some prior observations of LLMs’ failure modes too: arithmetic is not a strong suit; text locality matters and disrupting it (by interleaving new and old code, for example) lowers performance. 

 Pail instead provides all active code to the LLM with every request, transforming that code by prefixing L#### to each line, with #### replaced by each line’s consecutive line number—thus providing a built-in line-numbering scheme. Edits, implemented as a tool call, are represented as “old code” using the same L#### prefix, and “new code”, again with a line number prefix. This allows a straightforward extraction of which lines to replace (fuzzy-matched against line numbers and old code lines, for robustness), and locality in the production of new code. With this technique, we found that Pail succeeds in patching code directly from LLM calls over 90% of the time, with failures readily discoverable—and full-rewrite as a backup. As a bonus, these incremental updates can be streamed to users as well. 

 3.5.3. Differential Updates to Design Artifacts 
 
 In addition to incremental changes to the code, we implemented incremental changes to the four components of the Design Panel. Here, the challenge was primarily one of updating the visualization: these components are regenerated from scratch often, and in phases (first the summary line, then the alternatives, rationales, and highlights)—as with updates to code, we wish to begin displaying this data to users immediately as it comes in, especially when there is not already any data to display. 

 But when there is already-displayed data to update, Pail needs to evaluate the new set of, e.g.,   Reqs Reqs Requirements, which are streaming in as an incomplete JSON object, against a full set of existing   Reqs Reqs Requirements complete with alternatives, rationales, and highlights. This is accomplished by fuzzy progressive prefix-matching of incoming data with existing data. For   Reqs Reqs , for example, individual requirements coming in through the stream are compared with existing requirements for equivalency up to a threshold; only when confidence is high that a requirement is new does the visualization update to display the new requirement as its contents stream in from the ReflectionsAgent . Meanwhile, prefix-matched requirements (such as an incoming requirement with the incomplete text “Track the num” matching “Track the number of correct and incorrect answers.”) are not updated until changes are detected, avoiding re-rendering of existing requirements as they are streamed in. This technique is then applied, recursively, to the nested alternatives, rationales, and highlights. 

 4. Pail Usage: An Example 
 
 To make the design and intended use of Pail concrete, consider the following usage scenario. Sam, an experienced backend system software engineer and parent of two—kids 3 and 5 years of age—is eager to help her 5-year-old, Alex, learn how to read simple words. Sam’s tried what feels like all the iPad apps in the store, but none have clicked with Alex. Sam knows she could write a new app, but she’s not sure she can commit the time: programming in an unfamiliar environment (e.g., a game environment) often has a learning curve with high variance in time required, and there would likely be a lot of upfront preparation required before Sam could show Alex anything actually interactive—time ultimately wasted if Sam’s game ideas don’t appeal to Alex. 

 With Pail , Sam engages in the following scenario: 

 (1) 
 
 Sam asks the ConversationAgent for help making a game for Alex to practice reading simple words. 

 (2) 
 
 Pail responds with a chat message containing a few questions; a few seconds later, these appear in the   DQs DQs Design Questions section of the design panel. 

 (3) 
 
 Sam scans the suggestions in the   DQs DQs list: about who the user is, what kind of help they need, and what her own goals are for the app, finding the following: 

 ∙ ∙ \bullet ∙ 
 
 What specific skills should the game focus on? (E.g., letter recognition, phonics, simple words) —with an explicit suggestion she try Focus on simple words . 

 ∙ ∙ \bullet ∙ 
 
 What types of activities or game mechanics would be most engaging? —with the note that engagement will keep the child motivated. 

 ∙ ∙ \bullet ∙ 
 
 Are there any themes or characters that your child particularly likes that we could incorporate? 

 See Figure  4(d) for a screenshot of a similar set of   DQs DQs Design Goals. 

 (4) 
 
 Sam considers what she knows about Alex, what kind of support she needs, and more. Ultimately she clicks   Try Try next to the   DQs DQs Design Question alternative Focus on simple words. 

 (5) 
 
 Pail ’s DesignAgent notes this suggestion and follows up with another question: Any kinds of activities your kid enjoys? 

 (6) 
 
 This time, Sam responds in chat: maybe a word-picture matching game? 

 (7) 
 
 Pail ’s ConversationAgent offers an idea for an implementation using a drag-and-drop interaction, asking does this approach sound good to you? 

 (8) 
 
 Sam finds this suggestion confusing. Drag-and-drop isn’t an interaction Alex is that familiar with, and in other apps it hasn’t worked very well. What are some alternatives? Sam scans the design panel and finds drag-and-drop interaction in the   Decs Decs Implicit Decisions section of the design panel. She clicks   Try Try next to Use a tap-to-select interface for matching words to pictures. 

 (9) 
 
 Pail ’s DesignAgent has speculatively assessed this approach already, and identified that tap-to-select is simpler for very young children, and can be more intuitive than drag-and-drop —noting this when Sam was scanning through possible alternatives. 

 (10) 
 
 Pail moves this item up to   Reqs Reqs Confirmed Requirements and produces an initial prototype of the matching interaction: simple words and simple emojis, in a single line. The ConversationAgent offers a summary of code changes, and the ReflectionsAgent records that   Decs Decs Words and pictures are displayed in a simplified layout. 

 (11) 
 
 Sam doesn’t love this choice, and clicks   Try Try next to the   Decs Decs alternative Display words and pictures in a grid layout . 

 (12) 
 
 In response to ConversationAgent ’s generated patch to use a grid layout, Pail ’s ReflectionsAgent also moves this new requirement to the   Reqs Reqs Confirmed Requirements section. 

 (13) 
 
 At this point, Sam shows the prototype to Alex to gather feedback: are the pictures understandable? Are the words too complex, or too simple? 

 (14) 
 
 Sam and Alex can then work together to revise the project, incorporating Alex’s feedback about what he likes and doesn’t like about using the game. 

 Note that nothing here is beyond Sam’s capabilities as a software engineer. She knows how to write code, but is unlikely to find typical “paper prototyping” worthwhile for this use case. Pail gives Sam the ability to “sketch” with code, overcoming the activation energy required to choose and initialize an environment, figure out a data model and rendering pipeline, or otherwise make a large number of boilerplate decisions that must be resolved to have a working program, but serve no other purpose towards Sam’s goals around understanding what will help Alex learn to read. 

 Instead, using Pail , in 10 minutes Sam has already learned that Alex adores emoji iconography but the targets are too small for his fingers. Sam and Alex can continue using Pail to iterate on the game, pursuing completely new directions without losing track of the lessons they learned from earlier prototypes. Pail ’s suggested alternatives enable Sam and Alex to break free of anchoring effects or the “sunk code” fallacy of energy invested in authoring code. Using Pail , the energy invested is in considering alternatives, exploring the design space with potential users, and testing prototypes—epistemic actions resolving unknowns, which serve a useful design purpose whether they resolve positively or negatively. 

 5. User Study Procedure 
 
 We had two goals in our user study:
(1) identify possible ways the various built affordances helped or did not help users (though not prove definitively); and
(2) identify likely challenges inherent to AI support for design. 

 5.1. Interview Protocol 
 
 We began each interview by showing a demo use case for Pail , with an emphasis on what we expect it to be helpful for: designing interactive applications. We showed how to use the chat functionality, explained the tight integration between the chat agent and the code (as mentioned in § 3.5 , the chat agent can directly modify the code), and then walked users through the various parts of the design panel, explaining each subsection. With each subsection, we showed examples of entries, complete with the rationales, lists of alternatives, and results of speculative execution, and, finally, demonstrated what happened when the user clicks on the   Try Try button. We finished our introduction by explaining our research question, answering any questions from participants, and then moving on to the first task. 

 We encouraged participants to think of Pail not only as a code generation tool, but also as a design tool. We informed participants that they could ask for broad, high-level goals in the chat panel, such as “Help me design an interactive feature that goes along with this article: [pasted article]” (see § Task 1: , Task 1 below)—that the chatbot was designed to walk them through a design process, considering target users and the participant’s own high-level goals. 

 Because our primary goal is not to measure the effectiveness of Pail from a typical “HCI system evaluation” perspective, but rather to learn what the point design that Pail represents can tell us about the broader design space of AI-assisted programming, we actively encouraged participants to make use of Pail ’s affordances, and gave them suggestions on when and how to do so. This allowed us to observe a broader range of interactions and impacts than a more traditional lab study, or which might otherwise only be visible after participants develop an expertise using Pail . Naturally, this choice comes with limitations on what we can thus claim. 

 5.2. Tasks 
 
 Our primary criteria for task selection were: ambitious and ambiguous goals; robustness to common LLM failure modes, such as tracking long (or multiple) code files; and enough design focus that we could reasonably observe a diversity of design approaches among our participants. 

 As mentioned in § 3.3 , because we are primarily interested in the impact of design support on program design, and not on LLMs’ code synthesis capabilities or ability to support end users in learning programming concepts, we chose tasks that were ambitious but achievable using a length of code that our choice of LLM could robustly handle. These interests also drove selection of our participant pool, discussed below. 

 We ultimately selected 3 tasks for our participants: 

 Task 1: 
 
 Create an interactive feature to go along with an article about the impacts of air conditioning on migration patterns in high-average-temperature areas. 

 Task 2: 
 
 Create a game that helps a young child learn how to read or multiply. 

 Task 3: 
 
 Create a simulation to show the effects of medical overtesting, e.g., recommending screening for specific rare diseases for more people. 

 For participants who were parents, we started with task 2, and specifically asked for them to consider the needs of their own child and create a game to address one such need, so that we could observe whether having a very specific target user, who is well-known to the designer, has an impact on the design process. Parents were then asked to engage in task 1, if time permitted. All other participants were asked to engage in Task 1 first, then offered a choice of 2 or 3. 

 Several participants also requested time to engage in an open-ended exploratory task, in which they could experiment with Pail in service of some personally meaningful goal; we supported this where time allowed. 

 5.3. Participants 
 
 Participants were a mix of 5 academics and 6 professionals, of whom 3 were parents. We recruited participants with varying levels of programming expertise, design experience, and prior LLM use; see Table  1 . Our sample size was chosen in line with prior work around formative testing for usability  (Faulkner, 2003 ; Sauro and Lewis, 2016 ) : our goal is to explore the early benefits and likely challenges users encounter when engaged in our task using Pail , and our experience with pilot users suggested that we would find benefits and challenges quite quickly. 

 Our participant pool is skewed towards, but not exclusively consisting of, professionals and graduate students in design- and STEM-related fields—and it is certainly not representative of the population at large. We are not making claims about how a specific population does or does not engage in specific behavior, but rather seek to identify Pail benefits and forecast future challenges among a population that we expect is disproportionately likely to be early adopters of LLM-based tools. 

 We also skewed our pool towards participants with programming experience because we are most interested in design support, and wanted to avoid confounding factors caused by participant inexperience with code, programming systems, or other parts of Pail that were not directly related to our research goals. 

 ID 
 Age 
 Parent? 
 Professional Background 
 Design Experience 
 Programming Experience 
 LLM Use 

 P1 
 40s 
 Yes 
 Design Researcher 
 Professional 
 Professional 
 Infrequent 

 P2 
 20s 
 - 
 HCI Graduate Student 
 Professional 
 Professional 
 Frequent 

 P3 
 30s 
 - 
 HCI Researcher 
 Amateur 
 Professional 
 Frequent 

 P4 
 30s 
 - 
 Software Eng Manager 
 None 
 Professional 
 Infrequent 

 P5 
 50s 
 - 
 Software Eng Manager 
 Professional 
 Professional 
 Moderate 

 P6 
 60s 
 - 
 Film Media Artist 
 Professional 
 Amateur 
 Frequent 

 P7 
 20s 
 - 
 HCI Graduate Student 
 Professional 
 Amateur 
 Infrequent 

 P8 
 40s 
 Yes 
 Filmmaker Academic 
 Limited 
 Limited 
 Infrequent 

 P9 
 50s 
 - 
 Sound Artist Lecturer 
 Professional 
 Amateur 
 Infrequent 

 P10 
 60s 
 - 
 Software Engineer 
 Amateur 
 Professional 
 Moderate 

 P11 
 50s 
 Yes 
 Software Engineer 
 Limited 
 Professional 
 Moderate 

 Table 1 . Study participants. 

 5.4. Analysis Evaluation 
 
 Participants were instructed to think aloud while engaged in the tasks. We then undertook an exploratory data analysis, transcribing all videos and observing where participants directed their attention, where they made design decisions, and what factors appeared to influence them. We also noted where interviewers intervened. We then compared these observations across participants and categorized their approaches and uses of Pail using a well-established affinity diagramming process  (Moggridge, 2006 ) , and through the use of service blueprints  (Bitner et al . , 2008 ) that document participants’ behavior and reflections. We elected to use these methods from HCI and service design because we seek to understand broadly how different participants engage in similar tasks with a new technology—one that does not have an existing set of users with pre-established work practices they are already engaged in. 

 6. Findings 
 
 In this section, we report findings from our participants’ use of Pail . In particular, we find that (1) participants frequently engage in rapid-fire repeated iteration, commonly at higher level of abstraction than code, and often (but not always) through use of Pail ’s Design Panel. While in this state, participants treated iterations as disposable “sketches”, demonstrating little attachment, and engaged in activities spanning all parts of the “4 D’s” of design, from problem discovery and definition through solution development and delivery, sometimes within the same action. 

 We also find that (2) focused attention was spread quite thinly while participants used Pail , and between changes to code, new messages from chat, and changes to the design panel contents, awareness of what was happening in Pail was easily lost and was perceived as costly to regain—and that these perceived costs ultimately influenced where participants directed their attention. 

 In § 6.1 , we describe how participants use (or do not use) Pail ’s design support to move across abstractions, consider alternatives, and explore the spaces of possible problems and user needs. Then, in § 6.2 we examine where Pail falls short in supporting users’ design processes, and why. 

 6.1. Use of Pail ’s Design Support 
 
 First, we report on ways in which participants used Pail , drawn from in-interview reflections and post-session analysis of Pail use.
Across our open-ended program design tasks, participants were quite varied in their approaches. 

 A common (9/11) initial stumbling block was choosing the first action: though all participants were shown a “project in progress” within Pail with an overview of its various components (see Fig.  3 ), most (7/11) were not sure at what level of abstraction to make their first request. Should they think of a solution first, and then request that solution? Should they simply provide a description of the design task (and in the case of article-associated interactive task, the article) directly to the ConversationAgent ? Only four participants began by asking the ConversationAgent about the design task directly, eve