# FULL TEXT — A Survey on Trustworthy LLM Agents: Threats and Countermeasures

https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.09648v1

A Survey on Trustworthy LLM Agents: Threats and Countermeasures 

 1 Introduction 
 
 2 Intrinsic Trustworthiness 

 2.1 Trustworthy LLM as Brain 
 
 2.1.1 Attacks. 
 2.1.2 Defenses. 
 2.1.3 Evaluation. 
 2.1.4 Insight. 

 2.2 Trustworthy Memory in Retrieval 
 
 2.2.1 Attack. 
 2.2.2 Defense. 
 2.2.3 Evaluation. 
 2.2.4 Insight. 

 2.3 Trustworthy Tool for Action 
 
 2.3.1 Attack 
 2.3.2 Defense 
 2.3.3 Evaluation 
 2.3.4 Insight. 

 3 Extrinsic Trustworthiness 

 3.1 Agent-to-Agent Interaction 
 
 3.1.1 Attack 
 3.1.2 Defense 
 3.1.3 Evaluation 
 3.1.4 Insight 

 3.2 Agent-to-Environment Interaction 
 
 3.2.1 Physical Environment 
 3.2.2 Digital Environment: 
 3.2.3 Insight. 

 3.3 Agent-to-User Interaction 
 
 3.3.1 Discussion 
 3.3.2 Insight 

 4 Conclusion 
 A Trustworthiness Definition 
 B Comprehensive Taxonomy 

 A Survey on Trustworthy LLM Agents: Threats and Countermeasures 

 Miao Yu 1,† , Fanci Meng 1,† , Xinyun Zhou 4 , Shilong Wang 1 , Junyuan Mao 1 , Linsey Pang 2 ,
 Tianlong Chen 3 , Kun Wang 4 , Xinfeng Li 4,∗ , Yongfeng Zhang 5 , Bo An 4 , Qingsong Wen 1,∗ 
 
 1 Squirrel AI Learning, 2 Salesforce, 3 The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
 4 Nanyang Technological University, 5 Rutgers University

 (2025) 
 
 Abstract. 
 With the rapid evolution of Large Language Models (LLMs), LLM-based agents and Multi-agent Systems (MAS) have significantly expanded the capabilities of LLM ecosystems. This evolution stems from empowering LLMs with additional modules such as memory, tools, environment, and even other agents. However, this advancement has also introduced more complex issues of trustworthiness, which previous research focusing solely on LLMs could not cover. In this survey, we propose the TrustAgent framework, a comprehensive study on the trustworthiness of agents, characterized by modular taxonomy, multi-dimensional connotations, and technical implementation . By thoroughly investigating and summarizing newly emerged attacks, defenses, and evaluation methods for agents and MAS, we extend the concept of Trustworthy LLM to the emerging paradigm of Trustworthy Agent. In TrustAgent, we begin by deconstructing and introducing various components of the Agent and MAS. Then, we categorize their trustworthiness into intrinsic (brain, memory, and tool) and extrinsic (user, agent, and environment) aspects. Subsequently, we delineate the multifaceted meanings of trustworthiness and elaborate on the implementation techniques of existing research related to these internal and external modules. Finally, we present our insights and outlook on this domain, aiming to provide guidance for future endeavors. For easy reference, we categorize all the studies mentioned in this survey according to our taxonomy, available at: https://github.com/Ymm-cll/TrustAgent . 
 
 Xinfeng Li and Qingsong Wen are the corresponding authors. † † {\dagger} † denotes equal contributions. Contact: Miao Yu (fishthreewater@gmail.com), Xinfeng Li (lxfmakeit@gmail.com), and Qingsong Wen (qingsongedu@gmail.com)
 
 † † copyright: acmlicensed † † journalyear: 2025 † † doi: XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX † † isbn: 000-0-0000-0000-0/0000/00 

 1. Introduction 
 
 The advent of large language models (LLMs) has catalyzed a paradigm shift in artificial intelligence systems (Zhao et al . , 2023 ; Minaee et al . , 2024 ; Chang et al . , 2024 ; Wang et al . , 2024b ) . The integration of LLMs as backbone with extra modules (e.g. memory (Zhang et al . , 2024a ) , tool (Masterman et al . , 2024 ; Qin et al . , 2024 ) , and environment (Yang et al . , 2024c ) ) as extensions produces the concept of “LLM-based Agent”, transforming static neural network into dynamic cognitive subject capable of memory retrieval, tool utilization, and environmental interaction. Furthermore, the introduction of inter-agent communication has given rise to the more advanced concept of Multi-agent System (MAS), making the “hyper LLM ecosystem” become even more intricate, interactive and intelligent (Wang et al . , 2025a ; Zhang et al . , 2025a ; Yue et al . , 2025 ; Zhang et al . , 2025b ; Guo et al . , 2024 ; Xie et al . , 2024 ) . 

 Extensive academic research and industry practices have validated this performance hierarchy: MAS ¿ Single Agent ¿ LLM (Li et al . , 2023a ; Wu et al . , 2023 ; Talebirad and Nadiri, 2023 ; Chan et al . , 2023 ) . However, the incorporation of additional modules is a double-edged sword, which has raised new concerns regarding trustworthiness across multiple dimensions, including safety, privacy, fairness, and truthfulness (He et al . , 2024 ; Wang et al . , 2024c ; Xi et al . , 2025 ) . From a risk perspective, introducing new modules expands the system’s attack surface, potentially leading to unforeseen vulnerabilities (Yuan et al . , 2024a ; Tang et al . , 2024 ; Gan et al . , 2024 ) . On the other hand, this integration poses new challenges to existing defense mechanisms and trustworthiness evaluations, necessitating the expansion and upgrade of previous research that focuses solely on the trustworthiness of LLMs or a single agent (Zhang et al . , 2024b ; Hua et al . , 2024 ) . 

 Table 1. Comparison between TrustAgent and other surveys. 

 Survey 
 Object 

 Multi- 
 
 Dimension 
 
 Modular 
 Technique ‡ 
 MAS ⋆ 
 
 Liu et al. (Liu et al . , 2023b ) 
 LLM 

 Atk/Eval 

 Huang et al. (Huang et al . , 2024 ) 
 LLM 

 Eval 

 He et al. (He et al . , 2024 ) 
 Agent 

 Atk/Def 

 Li et al. (Li et al . , 2024b ) 
 Agent 

 Atk 

 Wang et al. (Wang et al . , 2024c ) 
 Agent 

 Atk 

 Deng et al. (Deng et al . , 2024 ) 
 Agent 

 Atk/Def 

 Gan et al. (Gan et al . , 2024 ) 
 Agent 

 Atk/Def/Eval 

 TrustAgent (Ours) 
 LLM + Agent 

 Atk/Def/Eval 

 ‡ ‡ \ddagger ‡ : Attack (Atk), Defense (Def), and Evaluation (Eval) denote TrustAgent’s broad technique view.
 ⋆ ⋆ \star ⋆ : Multi-agent System (MAS). 

 Figure 1. Overview of our TrustAgent taxonomy, featuring multi-dimensional (Left), technical (Middle), and modular (Right). 

 Previous survey efforts have delved deeply into the realm of trustworthy LLMs. Liu et al. (Liu et al . , 2023b ) dissect trustworthiness into seven major categories, focusing specially on establishing standards and guidelines for LLM alignment. Similarly, Huang et al. (Huang et al . , 2024 ) interpret trustworthiness from 6 perspectives but concentrate on creating benchmarks to evaluate trustworthiness. However, these studies are only partially effective in agent scenarios, highlighting an urgent need to address new trustworthiness issues arising from the introduction of additional modules. Other specialized surveys on trustworthiness in agents primarily focus on the sub-aspects like security and privacy and largely overlap with the content of Trustworthy LLMs (Wang et al . , 2024c , c ; Gan et al . , 2024 ) . In fact, some works merely address the new issues arising from LLMs serving as the “brain” module of agents (He et al . , 2024 ; Li et al . , 2024b ) , while overlooking the unexplored challenges introduced by other additional modules. To highlight our innovations, we compare TrustAgent with other surveys in Table 1 . 

 To this end, we propose the TrustAgent framework, as illustrated in Figure 1 , extending the research realm of previous trustworthiness surveys to the new context of agents and MAS. Our taxonomy in TrustAgent exhibits the following features: (I) Modular. TrustAgent rigorously categorizes trustworthiness issues based on the internal and external components of agents, specifically divided into intrinsic and extrinsic aspects. The former includes the trustworthiness of the brain, memory, and tools, while the latter encompasses the parts related to users, other agents, and the environment.
 (II) Technical. TrustAgent focuses on the implementation of trustworthy agents, providing a comprehensive summary and outlook on the relevant technology stack from three aspects: attack, defense, and evaluation (a comprehensive picture in Appendix B ). (III) Multi-dimensional. TrustAgent expands the dimensions of LLM trustworthiness to the context of both single agent and MAS, specifically categorized into: safety, privacy, truthfulness, fairness and robustness (with specific definitions in Appendix A ), by involving existing works in all these dimensions. 

 In each subsection, we begin with an overview of the current module’s mechanisms and roles within the agent system, then explore its trustworthiness issues from well-categorized perspectives such as attacks, defenses, and evaluations. Finally, we provide inspiring insights and outline potential future research avenues. 

 In summary, our contributions can be listed below: 

 • 
 
 Thorough and Latest Survey. We present a thorough and contemporary analysis of the trustworthiness in LLM-based agent systems, covering a wide spectrum of architectures including single LLM, individual agent, and MAS framework. 

 • 
 
 New Technique-oriented Taxonomy. Our taxonomy centers on techniques for compromising, achieving, and evaluating trustworthiness, updating old paradigms to the agent context and outlining new technical paradigms within the agent framework. 

 • 
 
 Insightful Future Directions. For each module’s trustworthiness, we identify current vulnerabilities and outline future directions, urging researchers to delve deeper into this area. 

 2. Intrinsic Trustworthiness 
 
 In this section, we focus on the trustworthiness of the internal modules of agent systems. In our definition, the agent system is an independent entity with human-like cognition, composed of brain ( Sec. 2.1 ) with memory ( Sec. 2.2 ), and behavior in the tool form ( Sec. 2.3 ). Due to the different functions and natures of these modules, the resulting trustworthiness issues vary. To provide in-depth analysis and instructive insight, we first introduce the role and functions of each module in the agent system and then summarize technical paradigms for attack, defense, and evaluation methods. 

 2.1. Trustworthy LLM as Brain 
 
 LLM agents consist of a central LLM “brain” module (Wang et al . , 2023 ) . The brain serves as the core reasoning and decision-making center, integrating inputs from various auxiliary modules to guide the agent towards its goal. Though the powerful brain connected with other modules enhances the agent’s ability, this integration expands the potential attack surface, making the system more vulnerable to trustworthiness threats. In this section, we center on brain-related attacks, defenses, and evaluations, with illustration in Figure 2 . 

 2.1.1. Attacks. 
 
 Unlike single-LLM systems, the brain module in agent or MAS experiences more frequent and complex information dynamics. The textual and visual inputs from the internal and external provide attackers with more interfaces and methods to compromise the trustworthiness of the core brain module. We do not discuss Misalignment attacks (e.g., fine-tuning an LLM to break its alignment) on agents here, as attackers typically lack access to modify the internal parameters of the agents. According to the manipulation mechanisms (as illustrated in Figure  2 ), we categorize attacks into three paradigms: 

 Jailbreak attempts to bypass the aligned trustworthy mechanisms within the agent brain via human-designed or optimized adversarial prompts (Kumar et al . , 2023 ) . Early methods, such as GCG and its variants (Zou et al . , 2023 ; Jia et al . , 2024 ; Wang et al . , 2024d ) , optimize adversarial suffixes to manipulate responses, coercing a “Sure” reply to malicious queries. MRJ-Agent (Wang et al . , 2024a ) designs a single attack agent to automatically generate covert jailbreak prompts, enhanced by information from multi-round dialogue. PrivAgent (Nie et al . , 2024 ) trains a single LLM as an attack agent through reinforcement learning to generate jailbreak prompts that can induce the target model to leak system prompts or training data. Furthermore, by leveraging multi-agent collaboration, Evil Geniuses (Tian et al . , 2023 ) and PANDORA (Chen et al . , 2024c ) construct MAS as attack optimizers to perform role-specific jailbreak on the brain of target agents or MAS. They reinforced jailbreak effectiveness through Red-Blue exercises and MAS multi-step reasoning, respectively. Additionally, interactions between different brains give rise to viral jailbreak. Specifically, AgentSmith (Gu et al . , 2024 ) and Tan et al. (Tan et al . , 2024 ) optimize self-replicating images to attack the brain of a single agent and discover an exponential spread of infectious jailbreak at MAS-level. 

 Figure 2. The framework of agent brain’s working mechanisms and its attack-defense-evaluation paradigm. 

 Prompt Injection embeds malicious prompts to override the original instructions to the agent brain, thereby manipulating its output or behavior (Liu et al . , 2023a ; Perez and Ribeiro, 2022 ) . Early research manually crafts instructions and injects them into data which may be retrieved during inference, potentially causing the agent brain to deviate from intended tasks (Greshake et al . , 2023 ) . Later studies automate this process via gradient-based or optimization-based methods (Liu et al . , 2024b ; Shi et al . , 2024 ) . Beyond injecting prompts in text modality, Bagdasaryan et al. (Bagdasaryan et al . , 2023 ) explore that multi-modal adversarial perturbations embedded in images or audio can manipulate the agent’s brain to follow the attacker’s instructions. The interaction between the agent’s brain and other modules also provides more surfaces for prompt injection. Zhang et al. (Zhang et al . , 2024i ) exploit various interactions across multiple surfaces to mislead the agent’s brain into performing repetitive or irrelevant actions, inducing logical errors and causing malfunctions. 

 Backdoor attacks involve the insertion of malicious triggers during training, which will be retrieved during inference, forcing predefined generation in the agent’s brain for specific inputs (Zhou et al . , 2025c ) . Yang et al. (Yang et al . , 2024a ) categorize agent backdoor attacks into two main types: The first type manipulates the final output distribution, by inserting triggers in different phases (query, observation), while the second one inserts triggers in agent’s thinking process to introduce malicious intermediate reasoning without altering the final output. The first type is exemplified by DemonAgent (Zhu et al . , 2025 ) , which fragments the original backdoor into multiple sub-backdoor segments and employs dynamic encryption, making the backdoor continuously change during execution. BLAST (Yu et al . , 2025 ) follows the second type and enables “infectious backdoor”, implanting a backdoor in a single agent and using it to influence other agents’ reasoning. 

 2.1.2. Defenses. 
 
 The agent brain is not only more complex than a single LLM in terms of interactions, but also faces more types of attacks. Therefore, designing corresponding defenses to ensure its trustworthiness across all dimensions deserves holistic study. Drawing on the defense mechanisms’ operational scopes, we organize defense approaches into three paradigms: 

 Alignment ensures that LLM agents operate in accordance with human values and ethical principles through fine-tuning, updating reward functions, etc. For instance, some studies embed human values directly into agents through intrinsic reward functions (Tennant et al . , 2024 ) or neuro-symbolic rule-learning frameworks (Frisch and Giulianelli, 2024 ) , validated in open-world environments like Minecraft. Another work fine-tunes agents with the data generated in social simulation scenarios (Pang et al . , 2024 ) to align agents with nuanced human behaviors and beliefs. Additionally, iterative alignment through user feedback and belief networks is leveraged to personalize agent behavior and reduce reliance on expert oversight, such as using historical edits (Gao et al . , 2024 ) or empirically derived human belief structures (Zhang et al . , 2024d ) . 

 Single-model Filter uses an external model to prevent attacks through input and output monitoring on the agent brain. Ayub et al. (Ayub and Majumdar, 2024 ) employ traditional embedding classifiers to detect prompt injection by analyzing input semantic features, while Kwon et al. (Kwon et al . , 2024 ) use a small model for harmful query detection. As for LLM filter, StruQ (Chen et al . , 2024b ) mitigates prompt injection by converting inputs into structured queries with a specially trained LLM. ShieldLM (Zhang et al . , 2024h ) fine-tunes an LLM safety detector that aligns with safety standards. Additionally, agent serves as an even more powerful filter. For example, GuardAgent (Xiang et al . , 2024b ) and AgentGuard (Chen and Cong, 2025 ) utilize a guardrail agent to protect target agents via safety constraint generation, action checking, and tool-use validation. 

 Multi-agent Shield leverages collaborative MAS to enhance the trustworthiness of the target agent’s brain. The main difference of these guard MAS lies in their communication pattern. Specifically, one pattern is multi-agent debate, where agents critique the reasoning processes of other components of the brain over multiple rounds to reach a consensus final answer (Du et al . , 2023 ) . Apart from debating, Kwartler et al. (Kwartler et al . , 2024 ) use a reviewing agent to provide feedback and correct the target agent’s generation. AutoDefense (Zeng et al . , 2024a ) assigns different roles to each agent, allowing smaller models to collaborate and protect the brain of the targeted agent from jailbreak attacks. 

 2.1.3. Evaluation. 
 
 Different from static LLMs, agents continuously adapt to their environment, making their behavior highly context-dependent and variable, which also complicates the evaluation. Current evaluation methodologies for agent brain trustworthiness can be categorized along two dimensions: 

 Focused Assessment assesses the trustworthiness of agent brain when facing certain types of attacks or in specific domains. InjecAgent (Zhan et al . , 2024 ) and AgentDojo (Debenedetti et al . , 2025 ) benchmark the brain’s vulnerability to Indirect Prompt Injection , while DemonAgent (Zhu et al . , 2025 ) introduces AgentBackdoorEval for Backdoor scenarios. RedAgent (Xu et al . , 2024 ) addresses context-aware red teaming, enabling test cases of context-sensitive Jailbreak . In addition to evaluating brain trustworthiness in specific domains, RiskAwareBench (Zhu et al . , 2024 ) introduces an automated framework for assessing physical risk awareness in LLM-based embodied agents. RedCode (Guo et al . , 2025 ) provides a benchmark for evaluating the code agents under risky code execution and generation with challenging test cases. 

 General Benchmark literally involves systematic evaluations to test the agent brain in diverse domains and from multiple dimensions. S-Eval (Yuan et al . , 2024b ) automates multiple dimensional and open-ended safety evaluation for LLMs with four hierarchical levels consisting of eight risk dimensions. While BELLS (Dorn et al . , 2024 ) evaluates LLM Safeguard with a structured collection of tests, including established failure tests, emerging failure tests, and next-gen architecture tests. Meanwhile, recent efforts have introduced comprehensive benchmarks for LLM agents. Agent-SafetyBench (Zhang et al . , 2024c ) and Agent Security Bench (Zhang et al . , 2024f ) are benchmarks that evaluate LLM agents with multiple scenarios and different types of attack/defense methods. AgentHarm (Andriushchenko et al . , 2024 ) contains 110 explicitly malicious agent tasks to evaluate LLM agent misuse, covering multiple harmful categories, including fraud, cybercrime, and harassment. RJudge (Yuan et al . , 2024a ) benchmarks the trustworthiness of multi-turn interactions based on agent interaction records, with 27 risk scenarios across multiple application categories and risk types. 

 2.1.4. Insight. 
 
 Current collaborative attacks in MAS can spread from a single compromised agent’s brain to multiple agents’ brain modules (Gu et al . , 2024 ; Yu et al . , 2025 ) . Therefore, developing collaborative security mechanisms that enable agents to monitor and validate each other’s actions is crucial. For example, a distributed consensus protocol can be implemented, where agents collectively verify and agree on critical decisions before execution. Additionally, current evaluations primarily rely on static datasets. However, given the agent brain module’s frequently dynamic interactions with external information, such evaluations are clearly insufficient. To address this, dynamic evaluation mechanisms should be implemented to better simulate real-world scenarios. For example, a continuous learning-based evaluation framework can be designed, where agents are tested in real-time environments with evolving data streams. 

 2.2. Trustworthy Memory in Retrieval 
 
 Memory mechanisms in agent systems are crucial for interaction with the environment and user, categorized into long-term and short-term memory. Long-term memory is often associated with RAG, utilizing vector database to store real-world data for generation tasks, while short-term memory holds real-time interaction history, such as dialogue context or task logs. These mechanisms enhance agent capabilities but also introduce trustworthiness risks. In this section, we analyze the trustworthiness challenges posed by memory, focusing on attacks, defenses, and evaluation strategies. The overall framework is shown in Figure 3 . 

 2.2.1. Attack. 
 
 We categorize attacks related to memory into three types: Memory Poisoning, Privacy Leakage, and Memory Misuse. 

 Memory Poisoning refers to attackers injecting malicious data into the long-term memory (Xiang et al . , 2024a ; Chen et al . , 2025b ; Zou et al . , 2024 ; Zhong et al . , 2023 ; Zhang et al . , 2024b ; Gu et al . , 2024 ) , which will be retrieved and then mislead the agent system to generate incorrect outputs, undermining its truthfulness. This attack’s danger stems from its stealthiness: once malicious data is injected into memory, it may continuously influence the agent until detected and removed. Specifically, we summarize the following attack paradigms: ❶ Memory Injection. PoisonedRAG (Zou et al . , 2024 ) optimizes malicious text through retrieval and generation conditions, enabling this text to be easily retrieved, while GARAG (Cho et al . , 2024 ) continuously uses genetic algorithms to optimize adversarial examples for injection. Additionally, RobustRag (Xiang et al . , 2024a ) and Zhong et al. (Zhong et al . , 2023 ) demonstrate that injecting even a small amount of malicious information into vector database can successfully attack agents with high probability. ❷ Backdoor. AgentPoison (Chen et al . , 2025b ) optimizes backdoor triggers and attaching them to queries, enhancing retrieval possibility of malicious samples. 

 Privacy Leakage refers to attackers leveraging the connection between agent and its long-term memory to steal the stored private data (Li et al . , 2025 ; Zeng et al . , 2024b ; Anderson et al . , 2024 ) . Beyond data theft, it enables criminal activities like phishing and identity trafficking, dramatically increasing privacy risks. Technically, we outline the following attack methods: ❶ Jailbreak. RAG-Thief (Jiang et al . , 2024 ) continuously optimizes anchor queries and adversarial commands, forming jailbreak prompts to conduct data stealing. RAG-MIA (Anderson et al . , 2024 ) designs specific jailbreak templates to extract private data from vector database. ❷ Embedding Inversion directly restores the original data from its embedding. Specifically, Morris et al. (Morris et al . , 2023 ) iteratively optimize the text hypothesis to bring its embedding closer to the target embedding, while Li et al. (Li et al . , 2023b ) reconstruct the data via a generative decoder. 

 Figure 3. The framework of the agent’s memory utilization workflow and its attack-defense-evaluation paradigm. 

 Memory Misuse crafts specific query sequences to gradually bypass intrinsic safety alignment via multi-turn interaction, leveraging the storage property of agent short-term memory (Russinovich et al . , 2024 ; Li et al . , 2024a ; Cheng et al . , 2024a ; Priyanshu and Vijay, 2024 ; Agarwal et al . , 2024 ; Tong et al . , 2024 ) . Therefore, the safety of an agent system is reduced. From a technical perspective, we outline the following two attack methodologies: ❶ Jailbreak. Agarwal et al. (Agarwal et al . , 2024 ) send an initial query along with an attack prompt in the first round, followed by a flattering challenge and a reiteration of the attack prompt in the second round, while Russinovich et al. (Russinovich et al . , 2024 ) begin with harmless questions related to the target task and gradually steer harmful generation. ❷ Backdoor. Tong et al. (Tong et al . , 2024 ) utilize multi-turn dialogue memory to conceal backdoor triggers, activating malicious responses only when all triggers appear, thus stealthily achieving the attack.
As a core component of agents, defense technologies against short-term memory misuse are even more important. 

 2.2.2. Defense. 
 
 To address the aforementioned memory attacks, several corresponding defense strategies have been proposed (Mao et al . , 2025 ; Zhou et al . , 2025a ; Xian et al . , 2024 ; Agarwal et al . , 2024 ; Anderson et al . , 2024 ) , which can be classified into the following three types: 

 Detection typically involves identifying and removing harmful portions of text retrieved from long-term memory. TrustRAG (Zhou et al . , 2025a ) employs K-means clustering on the retrieved embeddings to distinguish between clean and potentially malicious documents based on the embedding distribution. Xian et al. (Xian et al . , 2024 ) calculate the Mahalanobis distance between query and documents (poisoned or clean) retrieved from long-term memory and set a threshold to filter out malicious documents. Besides traditional methods for detection, Agarwal et al. (Agarwal et al . , 2024 ) utilize LLMs to detect and filter out parts of the prompt that access private data. Additionally, ASB (Zhang et al . , 2024b ) uses both perplexity-based and LLM-based detection to identify whether the text retrieved from memory is compromised. 

 Prompt Modification refers to altering the query sent to the agent to make it safer. Anderson et al. (Anderson et al . , 2024 ) embed user queries into a designed prompt template, which enables the LLM to ignore direct requests for querying the content of vector database. Agarwal et al. (Agarwal et al . , 2024 ) propose various modification strategies, such as adding security instructions to the original prompt, explicitly requiring the agent not to disclose data; or directly utilize the LLM to rewrite the query and filter out potentially privacy-leaking parts. 

 Output Intervention refers to intervening in the agent’s output before it generates the final response to prevent it from producing incorrect or unsafe replies. RobustRAG (Xiang et al . , 2024a ) employs an Isolate-then-Aggregate approach that independently generates responses for each retrieved passage and aggregates them via keyword, effectively reduce ASR as malicious passage are in the minority. Chen et al. (Chen et al . , 2023 ) demonstrate that safety filter can prevent the generation of unsafe tokens in multi-turn dialogues when agents use memory. 

 2.2.3. Evaluation. 
 
 Since there is currently no systematic and reliable evaluation of memory, we summarize some commonly used metrics in research. For memory poisoning and privacy leakage attacks, which rely on retrieving relevant data, evaluation metrics extend beyond ASR to include target text retrieval effectiveness. PoisonedRAG (Zou et al . , 2024 ) uses precision, recall, and F1-score to assess the retrieval effectiveness of malicious text. AgentPoison (Chen et al . , 2025b ) employs ASR for retrieval (ASR-r) to measure malicious trigger effectiveness. Zeng et al. (Zeng et al . , 2024b ) evaluate attacks by quantifying retrieved private data, and RAG-Thief (Jiang et al . , 2024 ) uses chunk recovery rate (CRR) and semantic similarity (SS) to gauge data theft from vector database. 

 2.2.4. Insight. 
 
 Current memory-centric attack methods often lack generalization across tasks. Memory poisoning relies on task-specific malicious samples to ensure retrieval by relevant task queries. Memory misuse, on the other hand, heavily depends on dialogue context, requiring tailored designs for various scenarios. From the defense perspective, for memory poisoning defense, future defenses should focus on the vector database end to prevent the injection of toxic samples, thereby reducing the defense time during agent responses. For privacy leakage defense, privacy protection mechanisms such as query rewriting or fine-tuning LLMs must be implemented in applications where privacy breaches are possible. For memory misuse defense, developing a multi-round adversarial dialogue training paradigm for safety alignment is essential to enhance robustness of agent. For the evaluation , as there is currently no systematic and reliable benchmarks, we recommend establishing benchmarks for the paradigms of attacks and defenses mentioned above. 

 2.3. Trustworthy Tool for Action 
 
 In the components of the agent or MAS, the tool module serves as the medium for interaction between the system and the external world (Liu et al . , 2024a ) . It can either gather information from outside (e.g., using a search engine for information retrieval (Chowdhury and Chowdhury, 2024 ) ) or reflect the internally decided actions back to the external environment (e.g., mapping UI operations to the interface (Zhang et al . , 2024g ) ). The typical forms of tools include API functions, sensors, embodied robots, etc (Yuan et al . , 2024c ) . However, different forms of tools exhibit varied properties and risks, making trustworthiness problems complicated and challenging. Simultaneously, although tools are also used in the context of LLMs (Shen, 2024 ; Zhuang et al . , 2023 ) , the closer integration with agents imposes stricter challenges on their trustworthiness, especially since some agents’ actions can affect the real world. Risks associated with agent tools may lead to more severe negative impacts compared to LLMs (Zhang et al . , 2024b ) . In this section, we present agent tool trustworthiness from the attack, defense, and evaluation perspectives, illustrated in Figure 4 . 

 Figure 4. The workflow of agent tool calling with corresponding demonstrations on attack, defense, and evaluation. 

 2.3.1. Attack 
 
 The planning, selection, and execution phases of tool invocation expose additional threat interfaces to attackers. Besides, tools enable agents to conduct certain malicious actions. Based on tool’s role in attacks, we summarize the following two paradigms: 

 Tool Manipulation targets specifically at certain steps in the tool calling process to induce execution of malicious or sensitive behaviors. Specifically and technically, we can further list the following methods: ❶ Jailbreak: Cheng et al. (Cheng et al . , 2024b ) manually design jailbreak prompts to extract personal information from the training data of code generation agent. Furthermore, Imprompter (Fu et al . , 2024 ) and Fu et al. (Fu et al . , 2023 ) utilize gradient optimization to search for input prompts or images automatically, which induce agents to invoke tools to leak privacy from dialogues or execute destructive actions on users’ resources. ❷ Prompt Injection: BreakingAgents (Zhang et al . , 2024i ) uses human-written prompt injection to achieve malfunction attacks, causing agents to perform repetitive or irrelevant actions, with further exploration on the attack propagation in MAS. ❸ Tool Injection: ToolCommander (Wang et al . , 2024f ) introduces a two-stage attack strategy: injecting malicious tools to steal user queries first and then manipulating tool selection using the stolen data, achieving privacy theft and denial-of-service attacks. ❹ Command Forgery: AUTOCMD (Jiang et al . , 2025 ) utilizes another LLM, trained on tool calling datasets and enhanced by target-specific examples, to generate and mimic valid commands to deduce sensitive information from the tools. ❺ Direct Manipulation: Zhao et al. (Zhao et al . , 2024 ) manipulate the outputs of third-party APIs by injecting malicious content or deleting critical information, leading to incorrect or biased behaviors. 

 Tool Abuse refers to the attack type that exploits the tool using capabilities of agent or MAS to achieve or enhance attacks on external entities. For example, in web security, Fang et al. (Fang et al . , 2024 ) explore how agents can autonomously hack websites when equipped with tools, while Fang et al. (Fang et al . , 2024 ) demonstrate that tool-integrated agents can autonomously exploit one-day vulnerabilities in real-world systems. Besides deliberate guidance, BadAgent (Wang et al . , 2024e ) and Kumar et.al (Kumar et al . , 2024 ) reveal that backdoor attacks or even refusal-based safety alignment can trigger agents to exploit tools for harmful actions. 

 2.3.2. Defense 
 
 Our investigation reveals that research on defenses against tool-related attacks is notably scarce, whether in the context of LLMs, agents, or MAS. GuardAgent (Xiang et al . , 2024b ) takes the first step to ensure the trustworthiness of target agents by invoking APIs to execute guardrail code for task plans. In addition, AgentGuard (Chen and Cong, 2025 ) autonomously identifies unsafe tool-use workflows via LLM orchestrators and generates safety constraints for secure tool using. 

 2.3.3. Evaluation 
 
 Due to the unique ability of agents to interact with the environment and their chatbot-like characteristics akin to LLMs, we categorize the paradigms for evaluating the trustworthiness of agent tool invocation into two paradigms: 

 Dataset Testing refers to the static evaluation using adversarial query datasets to test the trustworthiness of agent tool invocations. Specifically, ToolSword (Ye et al . , 2024 ) evaluates the safety performance of mainstream LLMs during tool invocation via multiple attack methods: malicious queries and jailbreak attacks at the input phase, noisy misdirection and risky cues during execution, and harmful feedback and error conflicts at the output phase. InjectAgent (Zhan et al . , 2024 ) establishes a benchmark via data generation to test agent trustworthiness against indirect prompt injection attacks during tool usage, including datasets containing malicious queries involving tool invocation. AgentHarm (Andriushchenko et al . , 2024 ) constructs behavioral datasets to assess the harmfulness of agents sequentially invoking multiple tools during task execution, finding that jailbreak templates can be adapted to effectively attack agents. PrivacyLens (Shao et al . , 2025 ) focuses on privacy security assessments during tool execution processes. 

 Sandbox Simulation describes the dynamic evaluation simulating tool interactions in controlled environments to assess emergent risks, especially in multi-turn queries. For instance, ToolEmu (Ruan et al . , 2023 ) employs an emulator LLM to simulate tool execution and an evaluator LLM to assess trustworthiness and identify potential risks. In addition, HAICosystem (Zhou et al . , 2024 ) establishes a sandbox environment through role-playing simulations and scenario-specific checklist evaluations to measure safety risks of tool-equipped AI agents in multi-turn interactions, revealing that LLMs exhibit higher risks when functioning as agents with tool access. 

 2.3.4. Insight. 
 
 A significant pain point in the current study on tool trustworthiness is the lack of defense mechanisms. Specifically, future research directions should focus on ensuring the security of Agents or MAS during tool invocation. Potential defensive measures could include reviewing tools before integration or simulating their execution in an isolated environment to verify safety before actual execution. On the other hand, from an attack perspective, research can follow traditional methods (e.g., jailbreak, prompt injection) while also leveraging tool characteristics to propose novel attack vectors, which may be a future research direction. For instance, since tools are often integrated into agent systems as third-party APIs, and there are currently no mechanisms to prevent malicious API providers, attackers could potentially provide legitimate and seemingly harmless tool descriptions that, when executed, lead to malicious outcomes. Furthermore, as agent systems become more complex, tool invocations may form chains, necessitating a shift in attack, defense, and evaluation research from single tool invocations to multiple invocations based on tool chains. 

 3. Extrinsic Trustworthiness 
 
 In this section, we focus on the trustworthiness of external modules interacting with the agent system. During operation, agents continuously engage with the external for purposes such as information gathering or decision execution. We categorize the interactions with the external modules into three types: agent-to-agent ( Sec. 3.1 ), agent-to-environment ( Sec. 3.2 ), and agent-to-user ( Sec. 3.3 ). We first introduce the role of each type and then elaborate on corresponding trustworthiness research, ending up with our insights. 

 Figure 5. A framework for defining various attack, defense, and evaluation strategies in agent-to-agent interactions. 

 3.1. Agent-to-Agent Interaction 
 
 Interactions between agents are crucial to system functioning and take various patterns, such as cooperation, competition and debate (Panait and Luke, 2005 ) . These Agent-to-Agent Interaction, is the key to shaping the system’s dynamics. However, they differ significantly in terms of their nature and associated trustworthiness risks (Hammond et al . , 2025 ) . To this end, we introduce current works related to agent interactions from attacks, defenses, and evaluations, with illustration in Figure 5 . 

 3.1.1. Attack 
 
 Unlike the simple information flow of a single agent, agent-agent interactions can not only be used to enhance attacks on a single agent via cooperation but also exploit its propagative nature to induce a trustworthiness crisis at the MAS level. 

 Cooperative Attack refers to malicious agents collaborateing to compromise the targeted agent-agent interactions, disrupting system safety. In terms of truthfulness , Ju et al. (Ju et al . , 2024 ) coordinate agents in MAS to spread counterfactual and harmful information, amplified by persuasive manipulation. Regarding robustness , Agent-in-the-Middle (He et al . , 2025 ) disrupts MAS coordination by using intermediary agent to intercept and manipulate communication, while Amayuelas et al. (Amayuelas et al . , 2024 ) exploit adversarial persuasion to further weaken system stability. As for safety , Evil Geniuses (Tian et al . , 2023 ) uses compromised agents to create adversarial prompts, refining attack through iterative simulations. 

 Infectious Attack spreads malicious effects by infecting others or disrupt agents or components within MAS. Prompt Infection (Lee and Tiwari, 2024 ) and CORBA (Zhou et al . , 2025b ) exploit this attack in text modality. Specifically, Prompt Infection uses silent adversarial diffusion to facilitate data theft and misinformation, while CORBA introduces a self-propagating, topology-independent attack that drains resources. In the context of multi-modality, Agent Smith (Gu et al . , 2024 ) and Tan et al. (Tan et al . , 2024 ) extend this attack to image modality, enhancing stealth and contagion, which accelerates the collapse of MAS trustworthiness. Finally, NetSafe (Yu et al . , 2024 ) analyzes how hallucinations and misinformation propagate across MAS topologies, revealing their structural dependencies and adversarial impacts. 

 3.1.2. Defense 
 
 Similar to Cooperative Attacks, we can enhance defense mechanisms by leveraging the cooperative ability of MAS. Besides, the interactions between agents allows modeling them as a graph, enabling defense strategies from a topological perspective. 

 Collaborative Defense uses agents cooperation via information sharing for a trusworthy analysis on the target agent response or action. Based on debate pattern, BlockAgents (Chen et al . , 2024a ) ensures secure coordination through multi-round debate voting with Proof-of-Thought consensus, while Audit-LLM (Song et al . , 2024a ; Chern et al . , 2024 ) shifts to hallucination, safety and robustness dimension. Except for debating, adversarial techniques are used for defense. For example, AutoDefense (Zeng et al . , 2024a ) enhances safety through adversarial prompt filtering, while LLAMOS (Lin and Zhao, 2024 ) establishes dynamic defense mechanisms to foster a robust equilibrium between attacker and defender. PsySafe (Zhang et al . , 2024l ) specifically targets dark property injection attacks, further solidifying the role of MAS in adversarial defense. 

 Topological Defense leverages network structure to isolate threats and limit their spread and impact. GPTSwarm (Zhuge et al . , 2024 ) represents an initial exploration into enhancing MAS robustness through topology optimization. In contrast, G-Safeguard (Wang et al . , 2025b ) delves deeper into combating adversarial attacks and misinformation in MAS across various topologies, employing graph neural networks (GNNs) to detect anomalies in discourse graphs. 

 3.1.3. Evaluation 
 
 The evaluation of agent-to-agent trustworthiness is still in its infancy with limited number of research. SafeAgentBench (Yin et al . , 2024 ) introduces SafeAgentEnv, which enables multi-agent execution with various actions and baseline models, to evaluate defense success rate. R-judge (Yuan et al . , 2024a ) assesses agent interaction safety in multi-turn interactions across several domains and risk scenarios. (BENCHMARK, [n. d.] ) proposes JAILJUDGE, a benchmark covering synthetic, adversarial, outdoor, and multilingual risks and featuring a manually annotated dataset and multi-agent evaluation. 

 3.1.4. Insight 
 
 We can clearly observe that agent-agent interactions lead to a novel and severe threat to trustworthiness—Infectious Attack. Future research on the attack side could focus on how to automate such attacks against specific agents or MAS. Simultaneously, corresponding anti-propagation defense mechanisms and evaluation methods are also potential research topics. Additionally, some studies treat MAS as (temporal) graphs, with agents as nodes and interactions as directed edges, and have conducted preliminary explorations of topology-based defenses or trustworthiness evaluations. This perspective might also be a point worthy of further investigation. Moreover, we have not found research strictly focused on the trustworthiness evaluation of inter-agent interactions, a gap that could potentially be filled by using LLMs or agents as dynamic detectors and evaluators. Research on the evaluation side may appear more urgent and deserving of attention. 

 3.2. Agent-to-Environment Interaction 
 
 Agents face unique trustworthiness challenges when getting information and taking action in dynamic and heterogeneous environments. These environments, spanning physical and digital domains, require adaptive perception, reasoning, and action for effective deployment. Trustworthy risks, such as autonomous driving errors and network disruptions, are influenced by agent roles and environmental constraints. Given the diversity of dynamic scenarios and related issues, existing solutions to address these challenges are fragmented and lack a systematic framework. Therefore, we adopt an environment-centric classification approach for discussion with Figure 6 , rather than technology-centric categorization. 

 Figure 6. Framework of agent interaction with various environments and enhancement of safety and truthfulness. 

 3.2.1. Physical Environment 
 
 In this environment, agents are transforming sectors like robotics, autonomous vehicles, and industrial systems, bringing both new opportunities and challenges. Researchers are actively developing innovative solutions to address these challenges, aiming to optimize performance while maintaining the highest truthfulness standards across physical applications. 

 Robotics: Yang et al. (Yang et al . , 2024b ) propose a constraint module based on Linear Temporal Logic, which enables safety violation reasoning and explanation, and unsafe action pruning, ensuring that robot agents meet global safety standards for industrial deployment. Additionally, SELP (Wu et al . , 2024 ) integrates equivalence voting and domain-specific fine-tuning to ensure that robot agents generate safety task plans such as drone navigation and robot manipulation. 

 Autonomous Driving: Hudson (Song et al . , 2024b ) formalizes real-time perception data into natural language with attack detection instructions and analyzes causal reasoning to enhance safety and truthfulness during perception attacks. Furthermore, ChatScene (Zhang et al . , 2024j ) generates safety-critical scenarios for autonomous vehicles by transforming unstructured language instructions into domain-specific code for CARLA platform simulations. 

 Industrial Control: Vyas et al. (Vyas and Mercangöz, 2024 ) propose an agent framework for autonomous industrial control, featuring validation and reprompting architectures that ensure real-time error detection, recovery, and safe decision-making. Agents4PLC (Liu et al . , 2024c ) automates PLC code generation and ensures truthfulness through rigorous code-level verification, improving correctness and reliability in industrial control systems by integrating RAG and COT. 

 3.2.2. Digital Environment: 
 
 Research focusing on the applications of virtual data across digital environments aims to enhance task-specific performance such as improving navigation on the web, diagnostic accuracy in healthcare, and efficiency in financial tasks. However, the vulnerability of data leads to a growing focus on addressing critical security, ethical, and compliance issues. 

 Network: Fang et al. (Fang et al . , 2024 ) point out that agents can uncover web vulnerabilities exploited for hacking attacks autonomously. Furthermore, researchers develop frameworks to evaluate the truthfulness of web agents. Debenedetti et al. (Debenedetti et al . , 2024 ) focus on the evaluation of defense in specific tasks like managing email clients. 

 Healthcare: For privacy, Xiang et al. (Xiang et al . , 2024b ) propose that LLM agents safeguard sensitive medical data through knowledge-driven reasoning. Regarding robustness, Polaris (Mukherjee et al . , 2024 ) suggests enhancing the reliability and robustness of LLM agents via multi-agent architectures for real-time patient-AI interactions. 

 Finance: Chen et al. (Chen et al . , 2025a ) identify risks such as hallucinations, temporal misalignment, and adversarial vulnerabilities in financial applications for finance agents. Meanwhile, Park et al. (Park, 2024 ) demonstrate how LLM agents can enhance anomaly detection via role-playing scenarios like manager-analyst communications, thus contributing significantly to risk management. 

 Social Media: Jeptoo et al. (Jeptoo and Sun, 2024 ) show that agents can be utilized for fake news detection through multi-agent collaboration and automated workflows. La et al. (La Cava and Tagarelli, 2024 ) use agents to simulate the evolution of language patterns that try to evade social media regulations, contributing to content regulation. 

 3.2.3. Insight. 
 
 In current research, the environment is often treated as a static backdrop, with safety efforts primarily focused on improving agent action outcomes. However, this approach overlooks the critical issue of trustworthy interactions between agents and environments, which represents a significant point of vulnerability for both attacks and defenses. Consequently, systematic attack and defense mechanisms are necessary for targeting environment-agent interactions to enhance system truthfulness and safety. For example, adversaries might subtly alter environmental feedback to mislead agents into making suboptimal or unsafe decisions.

 Current evaluations are predominantly focused on a limited set of domain-specific safety scenarios, failing to address the broader spectrum of interdisciplinary and cross-domain challenges. To advance the field, developing evaluations that address cross-domain and interdisciplinary safety challenges is essential for progress. 

 3.3. Agent-to-User Interaction 
 
 In this section, we discuss trustworthiness considerations in agent-user interaction, with particular emphasis on the user perspective (He et al . , 2024 ) . We elaborate on key challenges in building reliable, human-aligned agent systems. In our survey, the works summarized in previous sections focus largely on agent-to-user interactions, which overlap significantly with the content discussed in this subsection. Therefore, this section will mainly offer discussions and insights. 

 3.3.1. Discussion 
 
 Current research on agent trustworthiness focuses on safety and reliability but overlooks trust mechanisms in interactions process. A key gap is how users adjust trust based on agent behavior. While personalization boosts engagement, it also risks manipulation, requiring a balance with system robustness. Transparency is essential, as clear explanations help users manage risks. As agents evolve, they enhance trust while protecting user data. However, most studies address single-agent interactions, leaving multi-agent trust dynamics largely unexplored. 

 3.3.2. Insight 
 
 To advance research on trust in agent-to-user interactions, future work should focus on developing adaptive trust calibration frameworks that enable users to dynamically adjust trust thresholds based on real-time interactions. Feedback mechanisms should be optimized to reinforce beneficial agent behaviors while preventing trust erosion due to errors or biases. Additionally, a unified paradigm can be established to regulate and ensure fairness and reliability across different users and personalized agents. 

 A promising direction to improve transparency is by developing explainable agents that provide decisions and interpretable reasons to users. In the context of multi-agent, maintaining trust requires innovative monitoring—using supervisors agents to oversee interactions with user and ensure consistent responses. 

 4. Conclusion 
 
 In this survey, we introduce the six key components of agent systems, both internal and external. Focusing on each module, we summarize current research on trustworthy agents across multiple dimensions such as safety and privacy, from the perspectives of attack, defense, and evaluation. We summarize and define the typical method paradigm in each perspective to standardize and inspire further study. Notably, we identify several research and technical gaps in existing works, such as defense mechanisms for trustworthy tool invocation and the evaluation of trustworthiness in memory and agent interactions. Based on this, we highlight future research directions and key insights about the trustworthiness of agent and MAS, emphasizing their distinctive attributes and implications. We believe that this survey may encourage and inspire further research and exploration of trustworthy agent by both researchers and developers. 

 References 

 (1) 

 Agarwal et al . (2024) 
 
Divyansh Agarwal, Alexander R Fabbri, Ben Risher, Philippe Laban, Shafiq Joty, and Chien-Sheng Wu. 2024.

 Prompt Leakage effect and defense strategies for multi-turn LLM interactions.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.16251 (2024).

 Amayuelas et al . (2024) 
 
Alfonso Amayuelas, Xianjun Yang, Antonis Antoniades, Wenyue Hua, Liangming Pan, and William Wang. 2024.

 Multiagent collaboration attack: Investigating adversarial attacks in large language model collaborations via debate.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.14711 (2024).

 Anderson et al . (2024) 
 
Maya Anderson, Guy Amit, and Abigail Goldsteen. 2024.

 Is my data in your retrieval database? membership inference attacks against retrieval augmented generation.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.20446 (2024).

 Andriushchenko et al . (2024) 
 
Maksym Andriushchenko, Alexandra Souly, Mateusz Dziemian, Derek Duenas, Maxwell Lin, Justin Wang, Dan Hendrycks, Andy Zou, Zico Kolter, Matt Fredrikson, et al . 2024.

 Agentharm: A benchmark for measuring harmfulness of llm agents.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.09024 (2024).

 Ayub and Majumdar (2024) 
 
Md Ahsan Ayub and Subhabrata Majumdar. 2024.

 Embedding-based classifiers can detect prompt injection attacks.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.22284 (2024).

 Bagdasaryan et al . (2023) 
 
Eugene Bagdasaryan, Tsung-Yin Hsieh, Ben Nassi, and Vitaly Shmatikov. 2023.

 Abusing images and sounds for indirect instruction injection in multi-modal LLMs.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.10490 (2023).

 BENCHMARK ([n. d.]) 
 
JUDGE BENCHMARK. [n. d.].

 JAILJUDGE: AComprehensive JAILBREAK JUDGE BENCHMARK WITH MULTI-AGENT ENHANCED EXPLANATION EVALUATION FRAMEWORK.

 ([n. d.]).

 Chan et al . (2023) 
 
Chi-Min Chan, Weize Chen, Yusheng Su, Jianxuan Yu, Wei Xue, Shanghang Zhang, Jie Fu, and Zhiyuan Liu. 2023.

 Chateval: Towards better llm-based evaluators through multi-agent debate.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.07201 (2023).

 Chang et al . (2024) 
 
Yupeng Chang, Xu Wang, Jindong Wang, Yuan Wu, Linyi Yang, Kaijie Zhu, Hao Chen, Xiaoyuan Yi, Cunxiang Wang, Yidong Wang, et al . 2024.

 A survey on evaluation of large language models.

 ACM Transactions on Intelligent Systems and Technology 15, 3 (2024), 1–45.

 Chen et al . (2024a) 
 
Bei Chen, Gaolei Li, Xi Lin, Zheng Wang, and Jianhua Li. 2024a.

 BlockAgents: Towards Byzantine-Robust LLM-Based Multi-Agent Coordination via Blockchain. In Proceedings of the ACM Turing Award Celebration Conference-China 2024 . 187–192.

 Chen et al . (2023) 
 
Bocheng Chen, Guangjing Wang, Hanqing Guo, Yuanda Wang, and Qiben Yan. 2023.

 Understanding multi-turn toxic behaviors in open-domain chatbots. In Proceedings of the 26th International Symposium on Research in Attacks, Intrusions and Defenses . 282–296.

 Chen and Cong (2025) 
 
Jizhou Chen and Samuel Lee Cong. 2025.

 AgentGuard: Repurposing Agentic Orchestrator for Safety Evaluation of Tool Orchestration.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.09809 (2025).

 Chen et al . (2024b) 
 
Sizhe Chen, Julien Piet, Chawin Sitawarin, and David Wagner. 2024b.

 Struq: Defending against prompt injection with structured queries.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.06363 (2024).

 Chen et al . (2025a) 
 
Zichen Chen, Jiaao Chen, Jianda Chen, 