# FULL TEXT — Can LLM feedback enhance review quality? A randomized study of 20K reviews at ICLR 2025

https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.09737v1

Can LLM feedback enhance review quality? A randomized study of
20K reviews at ICLR 2025
Nitya Thakkar1 , Mert Yuksekgonul1 , Jake Silberg1 , Animesh Garg2 ,
Nanyun Peng3 , Fei Sha4 , Rose Yu5 , Carl Vondrick6 , James Zou1
1

Stanford University
Georgia Institute of Technology
3
University of California, Los Angeles
4
Google Research
5
University of California, San Diego
6
Columbia University

arXiv:2504.09737v1 [cs.AI] 13 Apr 2025

2

Abstract
Peer review at AI conferences is stressed by rapidly rising submission volumes, leading to deteriorating review quality and increased author dissatisfaction. To address these issues, we developed Review
Feedback Agent, a system leveraging multiple large language models (LLMs) to improve review clarity and actionability by providing automated feedback on vague comments, content misunderstandings,
and unprofessional remarks to reviewers. Implemented at ICLR 2025 as a large randomized control
study, our system provided optional feedback to more than 20,000 randomly selected reviews. To ensure
high-quality feedback for reviewers at this scale, we also developed a suite of automated reliability tests
powered by LLMs that acted as guardrails to ensure feedback quality, with feedback only being sent to
reviewers if it passed all the tests. The results show that 27% of reviewers who received feedback updated
their reviews, and over 12,000 feedback suggestions from the agent were incorporated by those reviewers.
This suggests that many reviewers found the AI-generated feedback sufficiently helpful to merit updating
their reviews. Incorporating AI feedback led to significantly longer reviews (an average increase of 80
words among those who updated after receiving feedback) and more informative reviews, as evaluated
by blinded researchers. Moreover, reviewers who were selected to receive AI feedback were also more
engaged during paper rebuttals, as seen in longer author-reviewer discussions. This work demonstrates
that carefully designed LLM-generated review feedback can enhance peer review quality by making reviews more specific and actionable while increasing engagement between reviewers and authors. The
Review Feedback Agent is publicly available at https://github.com/zou-group/review feedback agent.

1

Introduction

Scientific peer review is a critical step before publication, where domain experts evaluate the research to
ensure thoroughness and scientific integrity, prevent false claims, and provide a strong foundation for future
work [1, 2]. High-quality reviews are essential for authors to improve their work, address key limitations,
and advance scientific progress. However, in a survey of 11,800 researchers worldwide, while 98% view
peer review as essential to maintaining the quality and integrity of academic communication, only 55.4%
expressed satisfaction with the quality of reviews they receive [3]. This dissatisfaction has grown as obtaining
constructive and high-quality peer reviews has become more challenging due to the increase in the number
of paper submissions, especially in fast-moving areas like Artificial Intelligence (AI) [4, 5]. For example,
the International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) experienced year-over-year submission
increases of 47% in 2024 and 61% in 2025 [6]. To maintain a rigorous and meaningful peer review process
amid this growth, it is crucial to address the growing burden on reviewers and the subsequent deterioration
in review quality.
Authors at AI conferences increasingly report receiving short, vague reviews with criticisms like ‘not
novel’ or ‘not state-of-the-art (SOTA)’ [7]. At the 2023 Association for Computational Linguistics meeting,
1

authors flagged 12.9% of reviews for poor quality, primarily due to these vague, surface-level criticisms [8].
The peer review system is further strained by reviewers being assigned papers outside their expertise [9]
and the same papers being reviewed multiple times due to high rejection rates [1]. Additionally, the 2014
NeurIPS Experiment highlighted inconsistencies in the peer review process by showing that approximately
25% of paper acceptance decisions differed between two independent review committees [10]. These issues
not only frustrate authors but potentially allow weaker research to be accepted while strong work is rejected,
ultimately preventing papers from reaching their full potential due to the decline of meaningful dialogue
between reviewers and authors.
Large language models (LLMs) [11] have the potential to enhance the quality and usefulness of peer
reviews for authors [12]. Recent studies demonstrated that LLMs can serve as effective critics, generating
detailed and constructive feedback [13, 14]. Furthermore, LLMs have already shown high utilization in the
peer review process. Reviewers are increasingly turning to LLMs to assist in drafting their reviews, with an
estimated 10.6% of reviewers at ICLR 2024 using LLMs for this purpose [15, 16].
To explore how LLMs can improve review quality at scale, we introduce Review Feedback Agent, a multiLLM system designed to enhance the clarity and actionability of reviews by providing feedback to reviewers.
Piloted at ICLR 2025 as a large randomized control study, our agent provided feedback to over 20,000
randomly selected reviews (representing half of all ICLR 2025 reviews) over four weeks from October 15
to November 12, 2024. The generated feedback primarily focused on minimizing instances of vague and
unjustified comments while also addressing content misinterpretations and unprofessional remarks. Using
Claude Sonnet 3.5 as the backbone [11], we created a system of five LLMs that collaborated to generate
high-quality feedback. To enhance the system’s reliability against potential errors or failures in instructionfollowing [17, 18], we developed a set of reliability tests to evaluate specific qualities of the generated
feedback; the feedback was only posted if it passed all of these tests.
Summary of main findings. Of the randomly selected ICLR reviews that received AI feedback, 26.6%
of reviewers updated their reviews, altogether incorporating 12,222 suggestions from the feedback agent into
the reviews. Blinded ML researchers labeled these revised reviews as more informative and clearer than
their initial versions. Reviewers who updated after receiving feedback increased the length of reviews by an
average of 80 words. Furthermore, AI feedback led to more engaged discussions during the rebuttal period, as
seen through longer author and reviewer responses. We also observed that reviewers who received feedback
were more likely to change their scores after the rebuttal period, which was consistent with a more engaged
rebuttal process.
In this study, we present the first large-scale deployment for using LLMs to assist peer review. By making
reviews more actionable and informative, we aim to enhance the peer review experience and promote a more
constructive scientific process.

2

Methods

In what follows, we first describe the review feedback experiment, including its goals and our technical
setup with OpenReview. Next, we outline the architecture of our Review Feedback Agent and explain how
the system was designed to meet our goals while ensuring a high level of reliability. In total, the agent
automatically provided feedback to over 20, 000 reviews at ICLR 2025.

2.1

ICLR 2025 review feedback experiment

Our pilot study was conducted in collaboration with ICLR 2025 and OpenReview. As one of the world’s
fastest-growing AI conferences, ICLR receives thousands of paper submissions yearly; in 2025, ICLR received
11,603 submissions. Each submission is assigned an average of 4 reviewers, and all reviews are standardized to
include the same sections: summary, strengths, weaknesses, and questions. Furthermore, reviewers provide
scores on a scale of 1 (low) to 10 (high), rating the paper according to the following categories: soundness,
presentation, contribution, rating, and confidence.
Goal: Our goal was to enhance review quality and, in particular, reduce low-information content reviews.
Toward this goal, we identified three categories of common issues in reviews that we hoped to improve by
providing LLM-generated feedback. The common issues are: 1) vague or generic critiques in reviews (the

2

A

B

Reviewer comment

Feedback to the reviewer

All submissions

Improving
specificity
No reviews
receive
feedback

Half of reviews
receive
feedback

This paper could use
more experimental
baselines.

All reviews
receive
feedback

In Figure 4, the
efficiency experiments

Addressing
have no results for
misunderstandings Transformer models,

Review
Review
Review
submitted submitted updated based
(control) (feedback) on feedback
October 15

which is a key limitation
of the paper.

November 12

Feedback
generated
(+1 hour)

Reducing
unprofessional
remarks

The authors clearly have
no idea what they're
doing.

It would be helpful to suggest
specific baselines that you think
must be included. Are there
particular methods you feel are
missing from the current
comparison? Could you elaborate
why?
Does Figure 5 of the paper answer
your question? In particular: “In
Transformers, the proposed
technique provides 25% relative
improvement in wall-clock time
(Figure 5)”.
We appreciate your review, but
kindly request that you focus your
comments on the content and
methodology of the paper rather
than making personal remarks
about the authors.

C

The reviewer's
comments are
already specific
and actionable,
so I do not need
to provide any
feedback on
them.

Paper

Reviewer comment: This paper
could use more experimental
baselines.
Feedback to the reviewer: It would
be helpful to suggest specific
baselines that you think must be
included. Are there particular
methods you feel are missing from
the current comparison? Could
you elaborate why?

It would be helpful to
suggest specific
baselines that you
think must be
included. Are there
particular methods
you feel are missing
from the current
comparison? Could
you elaborate why?

Actor
Aggregator

Review

The paper lacks a related
work section, which
makes it challenging for
readers to quickly grasp
the background and
understand the previous
works.
This paper could use
more experimental
baselines.

Feedback posted

Critic

Formatter

Feedback

Reliability
tests

Actor
The feedback is
correct, clear,
and specific as
is.

The first comment is already
specific and actionable.
It would be helpful to suggest
specific baselines that you
think must be included. Are
there particular methods you
feel are missing from the
current comparison? Could
you elaborate on why?

Review Feedback Agent
Regenerate feedback
if any test fails

Figure 1: (A) Randomized controlled study setup. Before the start of the review period, we randomly
assigned all submissions to one of three groups to determine how many of its reviews received feedback:
none, half, or all. When a review selected to receive feedback was submitted, the agent generated and posted
feedback after 1 hour. Reviewers could update their review, optionally, based on the feedback until the
end of the review period, which ran from October 14 to November 12, 2024. (B) Feedback categories.
Our system is designed to address three main types of review comments. Here, we provide examples of
comments that would receive feedback from our agent, as well as examples of the generated feedback. (C)
Review Feedback Agent. Our system consists of five LLMs (Actors, Aggregator, Critic, and Formatter ).
Two parallel Actor s generate the initial feedback, then pass it to the Aggregator, the Critic, and finally
the Formatter. Finally, the feedback is passed through the reliability tests; upon successfully passing, the
feedback is posted on a review. We provide examples of comments and feedback given to those comments
by our system.

3

feedback asks the reviewers to be more specific and actionable); 2) questions or confusions that could be
addressed by overlooked parts of the paper (the feedback highlights relevant sections); and 3) unprofessional
statements in the review (the feedback asks the reviewer to rephrase). For each comment in a review, the
Review Feedback Agent determined if it fell into any of these problematic categories and, if so, provided
feedback on that specific review comment.
Experimental setup: We set up this experiment as a Randomized Control Trial (RCT) to enable us to
make causal inferences about how receiving feedback influences the peer review process. Before the beginning
of the review period, we randomly split papers into one of three equal groups (see Figure 1A):
1. No reviews for this paper will receive feedback,
2. Half of the reviews for this paper will be randomly selected to receive feedback,
3. All reviews for this paper will receive feedback.
For reviews randomly assigned to receive feedback, the Review Feedback Agent, wrapped in an API,
was automatically triggered when a reviewer first submitted their review on OpenReview. We delayed the
feedback generation by one hour after a review was initially submitted to allow reviewers time to make any
small edits (e.g., typo corrections). See Figure 1A for an example timeline. The agent posted feedback to
reviews through the OpenReview interface by replying to reviews with the feedback wrapped in a comment.
See Figure 2 for an example of what feedback looked like on the OpenReview website.

[full text not shown]

Figure 2: OpenReview interface. Here, we provide an example of feedback posted to a review on the
OpenReview website (with consent from the reviewer). Feedback is only visible to the reviewer and the
ICLR program chairs and was posted roughly one hour after the initial review was submitted.
The agent only provided feedback on the initial review, and there was no subsequent interaction between
the reviewer and the feedback system after that time point. The feedback is only visible to the reviewer
4

and the ICLR program chairs; it was not shared with other reviewers, authors, or area chairs and was not
a factor in the acceptance decisions. Reviewers were informed that the feedback was generated by a LLM
and could choose to ignore the feedback or revise their review in response, as the system did not make any
direct changes. Finally, we did not access or store any identifiable information about authors or reviewers.
This study was reviewed by IRB and deemed low risk.
Statistics: Around 50% of reviews were randomly selected to receive feedback. Of the 44,831 reviews
submitted on 11,553 unique papers (we excluded desk-rejected submissions), we posted feedback to 18,946
reviews (42.3%) over 4 weeks from October 15 to November 12, 2024 (see Figure 2A). Less than 8% of the
selected reviews did not receive feedback for one of two reasons: 2,692 reviews were originally well-written
and did not need feedback, while 829 reviews had feedback that failed the reliability tests. Each review took
roughly one minute to run through our entire pipeline and cost around 50 cents. On average, each review
that received feedback was given 3-4 feedback comments, with a minimum of 1 and a maximum of 17.

2.2

Review Feedback Agent

The Review Feedback Agent aimed to provide feedback that helped reviewers make their comments more
specific, constructive, and actionable for the authors.
Feedback categories: The Review Feedback Agent provided suggestions on three potential categories of
issues in reviews. We curated these categories by examining reviewer guidelines from several AI conferences
[19, 20, 21, 22] and evaluating previously identified patterns of “lazy reviewer thinking” [7]. We also took
inspiration from the ARR guidelines, where 16 common reviewer heuristics are outlined [23]. Importantly,
the agent was not designed to suggest new ideas to add to the review; rather, it only focused on revising the
existing ideas and preventing lower-quality reviews. The target feedback areas that we ultimately focused
on were:
1. Improving specificity: Encouraging reviewers to rephrase vague review comments, making them
more specific, actionable, and justified for the authors.
2. Addressing misunderstandings: Highlighting sections of the paper that may already address some
of the reviewer’s questions or confusion.
3. Reducing unprofessional remarks: Identifying and addressing unprofessional or inappropriate
remarks in the review. A 2019 study of 1,106 researchers found that 58% had received an unprofessional
review, highlighting its prevalence [24].
See Figure 1B for examples of real reviewer comments (from ICLR 2024 reviews and public journal
reviews) in each category that would receive feedback and examples of feedback that would be given.
Preprocessing: The agent was provided with the paper PDF’s text (extracted using pypdf’s PdfReader
[25]) and the review text as input. We extracted the summary, strengths, weaknesses, and questions sections
from the review. We did not provide the agent with any of the scores the reviewer initially gave the paper.
Architecture: The agent generated a list of pairs, with each pair consisting of a review comment that
fit into one of the problematic categories above and the corresponding feedback provided for that comment.
The agent was composed of a pipeline of five LLMs (see Algorithm 1, Figure 1C). We used the Claude Sonnet
3.5 (June 20, 2024) model [11] as the backbone; we picked the backbone model by generating feedback with
the same prompt using GPT-4o, Gemini 1.5 Flash, and Claude Sonnet 3.5 and then conducting a blind
preference evaluation. Additionally, through testing, we found that one LLM was insufficient to generate
high-quality feedback and format it correctly, thus, we instantiated the multi-call pipeline. First, we defined
two parallel actor LLMs to generate the initial set of feedback based on the previously defined target areas.
The actors were provided with the initial review (R) and paper text (P ) as inputs. We used two separate
actors to optimize for feedback diversity. Then, we passed the two lists of feedback, F1 and F2 , to an
aggregator LLM, which merged the lists into one set of feedback, Fcombined . Next, we passed this candidate
list to a critic LLM responsible for ensuring the feedback was accurate and clear. Importantly, the critic also
removed any feedback that was too superficial or nitpicky, defined through various in-context examples (see
Appendix A for the examples), as we did not want to overwhelm or annoy reviewers. Finally, a formatter
LLM was provided with this final list, Ff iltered , and formatted it into pairs:

5

• **Reviewer comment:** a comment
• **Feedback to the reviewer:** feedback to the comment
Algorithm 1 Review Feedback Agent
1: Input: Paper text P , Review R, max attempts T = 2
2: for t = 1 to T do
3:
F1 ← Actor1 (P, R)
4:
F2 ← Actor2 (P, R)
5:
Fcombined ← Aggregator(F1 , F2 )
6:
Ff iltered ← Critic(Fcombined )
7:
Ff inal ← Formatter(Ff iltered )
8:
if PassReliabilityTests(Ff inal ) then return Ff inal
9:
end if
10: end for
11: return error
See Appendix A for the exact prompts used. To refine this system, we constructed a test set of 50 ICLR
2024 reviews we perceived to be of low quality in one or more of our target areas (i.e., they made vague
comments, asked questions that were present in the paper already, and/or made unprofessional remarks).
We iteratively ran our agent on this test set, examined the generated feedback, and refined the prompts to
optimize the results. This procedure ultimately led to prompts that produced high-quality feedback for all
50 reviews in the test set.
Reliability testing: Inspired by [26], we also developed a suite of reliability tests designed to act
as guardrails, ensuring the quality of our generated feedback. Reliability tests evaluate specific attributes
of a model’s output. The four reliability tests we developed ensured the feedback provided constructive
suggestions, addressed the reviewer, did not simply restate what the reviewer wrote, and was formatted
correctly. We provide the exact reliability tests we used and examples of feedback that would fail the
reliability tests in Appendix B. We developed up to five test cases for each reliability test and refined the
reliability test prompts until we passed all the test cases. To refine our Review Feedback Agent’s pipeline
and prompts, we passed our test set reviews through the validated reliability tests until we achieved a 100%
pass rate.
Feedback was only posted to a review if it passed all our reliability tests; if it failed, we re-ran the entire
pipeline a second time (T = 2) to generate new feedback. Upon a second fail, we returned an error and did
not post the feedback. Over 96% of generated feedback for ICLR 2025 reviews passed all reliability tests.

3

Results

3.1

Impact of feedback on review updates and reviewer engagement

First, we aimed to objectively measure how many reviewers updated their reviews after receiving feedback
compared to those who did not receive feedback. This enabled us to assess how the feedback may have been
associated with changes in various components of their review, such as length and scores.
We conducted this ICLR experiment as a randomized controlled study by randomly splitting all reviews
into one of two groups: not selected to receive feedback (control group) or selected to receive feedback
(feedback group) - see Section 2 for more details. Note that the group selected to receive feedback includes
the 7.9% of reviews that were selected but did not actually receive feedback, mostly because AI deemed
feedback not necessary there. This intent-to-treat definition of the feedback group enables us to conduct
causal analysis but could dilute the actual effect of the feedback.
Of all reviews in the feedback group, we further defined reviews that successfully received feedback as
either being not updated or updated. A review is not updated if a reviewer did not edit their review after
receiving feedback or if the edit distance between the initial and modified review was less than 5; this edit
distance filtering accounted for minor updates such as fixing typos or modifying scores. Conversely, a review

6

A

B

C

Control
Average change in length

7.0

Feedback
21.0

∗∗

(∆ + 200%)

Not updated

Updated

2.1

80.3∗∗∗

Figure 3: (A) Feedback statistics. Among all ICLR 2025 reviews, 22,467 were randomly selected to receive
feedback (feedback group), and 22,364 were randomly selected not to receive feedback (control group).
Of those selected to receive feedback, 18,946 (42.3%) successfully received feedback, with 26.6% of those
reviewers updating their reviews. (B) Update rates. (Top) Most reviews were submitted 2-3 days before
the review deadline (November 4, 2024). (Bottom) Reviewers were more likely to update their review if
they submitted it early relative to the deadline. Reviewers who received feedback were much more likely to
update their reviews than those in the control group, with a difference of approximately 17 percentage points.
(C) Average change in review length (measured as number of words). Review length is measured only
for the following sections: summary, strengths, weaknesses, and questions. The difference in review length
between the control and feedback groups is statistically significant (∗∗ p ≤ 0.01), with being selected to receive
feedback leading to an average increase of 14 words more (a 200% increase) in review length compared to
the control group. The difference is more pronounced between the not-updated and updated groups (∗∗∗ p
≤ 0.001).

7

is updated if a reviewer did edit their review after receiving feedback and the edit distance between the initial
and modified review was greater than 5.
Of the 18,946 reviews that successfully received feedback, 5,031 (26.6%) reviews were updated (Figure
3A). Out of the 22,364 reviews in the control group, only 2,103 (9.4%) were updated; here, we define updated
for the control group as a reviewer updating at least one hour after posting (the time it takes for the feedback
group to receive feedback) with an edit distance greater than 5. With an update rate difference of roughly
17 percentage points (Figure 3B), we can see that reviews that received feedback were much more likely to
be updated than those that did not.
In Figure 3B, we also see that reviewers who submitted early relative to the deadline (November 4,
2024) were more likely to update their review than those who submitted close to or after the deadline. This
suggests that more organized reviewers, who may already be more engaged in the review process, were more
likely to revise their reviews in response to feedback. While this will influence our analysis comparing the
not updated and updated groups, we can be confident that the underlying distribution of the control and
feedback groups is similar and not biased by factors such as reviewer organization because we conducted this
as an RCT. Randomization helps mitigate such biases, making it possible to assess the causal impact of the
feedback on the peer review process.
Finally, we analyzed the change in review length (number of words in the summary, strengths, weaknesses,
and questions sections) among the groups (Figure 3C). We compared the initial review length and the
modified review length; we refer to modified reviews as the review at the end of the four-week review period
before the rebuttal period began (only these modified reviews are made public to authors). We saw that
review length, on average, increased across all groups. First, we observed that being selected to receive
feedback caused the average review length to increase by about 14 words more than reviews that were not
selected to receive feedback. Note that this effect size is deflated due to the substantial number of reviewers
who received feedback but did not update their review, as well as the 7.9% of reviews that were selected to
receive feedback but did not actually get it. We also see that updating the review after receiving feedback
is associated with a statistically significant increase in review length (80 words) compared to not updating
the review (2 words). We can infer that reviewers who updated their reviews were editing them more
consistently to incorporate more detail and nuance, explaining this large increase in length. In addition
to feedback causing an increase in review length, we also found that a significantly higher percentage of
reviewers who received feedback edited at least one of their scores (soundness, presentation, contribution,
rating, and confidence) during the review period, with 8.1% of them making edits compared to 7.5% among
the control group (p ≤ 0.05). In Appendix C, we observe no significant difference in the average score changes
between the feedback and control groups.

3.2

Measuring how much feedback reviewers incorporate

Of the reviewers that updated their review, we wanted to measure what proportion of them incorporated
one or more pieces of feedback they were provided. This analysis helped us estimate how many reviewers
found the feedback useful.
We counted a piece of feedback as incorporated if the reviewer clearly integrated some part of the feedback
into their modified review. To systematically carry out this analysis, we developed an LLM-based pipeline
to run on all updated reviews (see Supplementary Figure S2A). We used the Claude Sonnet 3.5 model to
evaluate whether each feedback item received by a reviewer was incorporated into their modified review.
See Appendix D for our approach to validating this pipeline. Of the 5,031 reviews that reviewers updated,
encompassing 18,322 total feedback items, 89% of reviewers incorporated at least one piece of feedback.
This represents 23.6% of all reviewers who received feedback (Figure 4A). In total, we estimate that 12,222
feedback items were incorporated into revised reviews. We also examined the number of feedback items
reviewers who updated their reviews received compared to how many feedback items they incorporated
(Figure 4B). We see that when reviewers receive fewer feedback items, they are more likely to incorporate
more (or even all) of the items. Overall, the average reviewer who updated their review incorporated 69.3%
of the feedback they received; in other words, given 3 pieces of feedback, the average reviewer who updated
their review incorporated 2 of them.
Below are a few examples of real incorporations reviewers made based on their feedback. We provide the
initial review comment they posted, the feedback they received, and then their modified comment.

8

A

B

Of 12,222 total feedback items incorporated:

Figure 4: (A) Overall incorporation statistics. Through our LLM-based incorporation analysis, we
estimate that 23.6% of reviewers who were given feedback incorporated at least one feedback item they were
given. This means that 89% of reviewers who updated their review after receiving feedback incorporated at
least one item. (B) Feedback incorporation trends. Here, we illustrate the relationship between the
number of feedback items reviewers who updated their review received and how many of those items they
incorporated. In total, reviewers incorporated 12,222 feedback items. Notably, reviewers were more likely to
incorporate feedback when given fewer items.
Incorporation example: Feedback that encourages specificity
Original comment: Theorems 1, 2, 3 require the notion of interpolation, which is considered a
strong assumption to have.
Feedback: To make this critique more actionable, it would be helpful to elaborate on why the interpolation assumption is problematic in this context. Are there particular types of federated learning
problems where this assumption is unlikely to hold? Providing concrete examples or suggestions for
how the authors could relax or justify this assumption would give them clearer guidance on addressing
this limitation.
Revised comment: Theorems 1, 2, 3 require the notion of interpolation. Even though an explanation of regimes that satisfy this condition is provided, considering that there are previous works [1], [2]
that extend beyond that setting, this assumption seems to be an avenue for future work in this field.
More specifically, the initial FedProx algorithm [1] is analyzed in the general non-interpolated setting.
In addition, the follow-up work regarding the FedExProx algorithm [2] considers in the main paper
the interpolated regime. However, the authors provide additionally an illustration of the algorithm’s
behaviour in the non-interpolated setting (see Appendix F.3 in [2]). In that sense, it would be useful
to provide some additional details on the behaviour of the algorithm in the non-interpolated setting or
to comment on the main challenges in extending the current proof technique beyond the interpolation
framework, offering in that way a more complete picture and direction for future research.

9

Incorporation example: Feedback that identifies content oversight
Original reviewer comment: How is the performance on Llama?
Feedback to the reviewer: The paper appears to provide results on Llama 2-7B in Table 3. Does
this address your question? If not, could you clarify what specific aspects of performance on Llama
you’re interested in that aren’t covered by the current results?
Modified reviewer comment: How is the performance on Llama3 with the alpaca dataset?
Incorporation example: Feedback that makes review more actionable
Original reviewer comment: Limited application focus on other visual tasks (e.g., object detection,
segmentation) beyond classification.
Feedback to the reviewer: To make this comment more actionable, consider asking the authors
to discuss potential extensions or challenges in applying their approach to other visual tasks. For
example: ‘How might the visual memory approach be adapted for tasks like object detection or segmentation? What unique challenges would arise in those domains?’
Modified reviewer comment: Limited application focus on other visual tasks (e.g., object detection, segmentation) beyond classification. How might the visual memory approach be adapted for
tasks like object detection or segmentation? What unique challenges would arise in those domains?
Finally, we wanted to assess whether these incorporated reviews were clearer, more specific, and more
actionable for authors. To conduct this analysis, we asked two human AI researchers to conduct a blind preference evaluation between the initial and modified pre-rebuttal reviews. Specifically, we focused on reviews
in the updated group that received 3-4 feedback items (the average number given) where the proportion of
incorporated feedback exceeded 0.60. This threshold was chosen because the average incorporation rate was
67%, and we aimed to assess whether an average updated review with incorporated feedback was perceived
as an improvement. Human annotators preferred modified reviews 89% of the time (out of 100 examples),
indicating that reviewers who incorporated feedback consistently produced higher-quality reviews.

3.3

Influence of feedback on rebuttals and decisions

We next analyzed the impact of being selected to receive feedback on the rebuttal process and decision
outcomes. The rebuttal period took place over three weeks between November 12 and December 4, 2024,
and was a time when authors could respond to their reviewer’s comments as they revised their papers. We
examined how the feedback causally impacted different engagement measures during the rebuttal period.
Control
Average length of author rebuttal
Average length of reviewer replies

807
110

Feedback
∗∗∗

855
(∆ + 6%)
116∗∗∗ (∆ + 5.5%)

Not updated

Updated

840
115

896∗∗∗
129∗∗∗

Table 1: Average change in rebuttal and reply length (measured as number of words). We observe
that being selected to receive feedback causally increased the length of author rebuttals by an average of 48
words (6%; ∗∗∗ p ≤ 0.001) for reviews written by reviewers who were selected to receive feedback, compared to
those who were not. We also see that the average length of reviewer replies to author rebuttals is significantly
longer among those who were selected to receive feedback, with an average increase of 6 words (5.5%; ∗∗∗ p
≤ 0.001).
In the first row of Table 1, we observed that authors posted rebuttals that were, on average, 6% longer
(48 words) to reviews written by reviewers who were selected to receive feedback, which is significantly longer
than those posted to reviews in the control group. In other words, authors were generally more engaged when
10

their reviewer was selected to receive feedback. This could be because the feedback led to clearer and more
actionable reviews, allowing authors to more effectively address and respond to the reviewer’s comments
with more detailed rebuttals. In the second row of Table 1, we also saw that reviewers who were selected to
receive feedback responded to these rebuttals with replies that were, on average, 5.5% longer (6 words) than
those who were not selected, again highlighting increased engagement among reviewers if they were in the
feedback group.
This increased engagement is reflected in the percentage of reviewers who edited one or more of their
scores for a paper during the rebuttal period. We found that 31.7% of reviewers who received feedback edited
their scores, compared to 30.6% of those who did not, consistent with receiving feedback being associated
with greater reviewer-author engagement. Overall, these findings lead us to conclude that authors were
better able to address their reviewers’ original concerns during the rebuttal period if their reviewer was
selected to receive feedback, leading to more engagement and satisfaction among both groups.
Finally, we evaluated whether papers with reviews that were selected to receive feedback had a different
acceptance rate than those that were not. We compared the acceptance rates of the control and feedback
groups, defining the control group as all papers where no reviews were selected to receive feedback and
the feedback group as those where at least one review was selected to receive feedback. While there was a
slightly higher acceptance rate of 32.3% among papers in the feedback group, compared to 30.8% among the
control group, this difference was not statistically significant. This indicates that while receiving feedback
promoted more engaged and thorough discussions among reviewers and authors, it did not substantially
change acceptance rates.

3.4

Clustering analysis of the feedback comments

A

B

Figure 5: (A) Feedback clusters. We used an LLM to group all the feedback items we provided to reviewers
into five distinct clusters based on the text. We found that nearly half of the feedback was directed at asking
the reviewer to ‘clarify methodological concerns to make their request specific and actionable.’ The next
most popular cluster was feedback asking the reviewer to ‘clarify their request by adding specific analyses,
baselines, or references.’ (B) Incorporation rate by cluster. We measured the percentage of feedback
items within each cluster that reviewers incorporated. Overall, 17.7% of all feedback was incorporated.
When examined by cluster, incorporation rates ranged from 14% to 18%, with no statistically significant
differences observed.
To gain more insights into what types of feedback were provided by the AI agent, we present a quantitative
clustering analysis of the feedback generated. Of the 69,836 total feedback items the agent gave to reviewers,
we characterized the feedback by generating distinct clusters. Inspired by [27, 28], we generated five clusters
on 1000 randomly sampled feedback items using an LLM; we repeated this process twice to ensure robustness.
Of the 10 candidate clusters, we prompted a second LLM to select five non-overlapping clusters, giving us
the five clusters we present below. Finally, we prompted a third LLM to assign the feedback items to one of
the five clusters so we could determine what proportion of feedback belonged to each cluster. We depict the
five clusters in Figure 5A, as well as examples of feedback items that would fall into each cluster in Table 2.
11

Cluster

Reviewer comment

Feedback to the reviewer

Clarify
methodological concerns to
make request specific and actionable

The experimental setup
and tool flow used to
conduct the experiments
should be described in
more detail.

To make this feedback more actionable, it would be helpful to specify what aspects of the experimental setup and
tool flow you feel are missing. For example, are you looking for more details on the hardware specifications used
for CPU/GPU/FPGA experiments, software frameworks
and versions, training hyperparameters, or quantization
settings?

Clarify
request
by adding specific
analyses, baselines,
or references

All the experiment examples are numerical and
toy, and there is a large
mismatch with real physical engineering systems.
Therefore, I do not think
they are convincing.

To make this critique more constructive, you could suggest specific real-world physical systems or benchmarks that
would provide a more convincing evaluation of the method.
This would give the authors concrete ideas for improving
their experimental validation.

Clarify suggestions
to visuals or format

A few suggestions, Fig.
2 is very hard to understand. Is there another
way to convey the same information which is easier
to read?

To make this feedback more constructive, try to articulate
what specific aspects of Figure 2 are difficult to understand.
You could suggest alternative visualization formats or specific elements that need clarification. This would help the
authors know how to improve the figure.

Request authors expand on methodological limitations
or broader implications

CSP can only support binary labels.

To make this comment more constructive, you could ask
the authors to discuss the implications of this limitation for
real-world applications and whether they have considered
any extensions to support multi-class problems.

Clarify desired improvements to theoretical analysis or
proofs

How standard are the assumptions (Assumptions
C.1 and C.2) required for
proving Theorems 4.1 and
4.2? It would be helpful to see more justification regarding their validity (e.g. other papers
building based upon similar assumptions).

This is an excellent question that probes the theoretical
foundations of the paper. To make it more actionable, you
could ask the authors to provide specific examples of other
works in the field that rely on similar assumptions, or to
explain how these assumptions compare to those typically
used in related theoretical analyses. This would help contextualize the theoretical contributions within the broader
literature.

Table 2: Examples of AI-generated feedback that belong to each of the five main clusters. We also
provide the original review comment that triggered the generation of the feedback.
These clusters indicate that the vast majority of feedback provided was addressed towards vague review
comments and aimed to make them more specific, actionable, and justified. We saw that the agent rarely
chose to comment on content misunderstandings, in large part because it had to be absolutely certain there
was an error and provide a direct quote from the paper highlighting the mistake as we did not tolerate any
hallucinations. Therefore, we saw that the model would err on the side of caution and not provide many
comments related to that category.
We also sought to measure the percentage of feedback items within each cluster that were incorporated
by reviewers, as shown in Figure 5B. Overall, out of the 69,836 feedback items given, we found that 17.7%
of all feedback was incorporated. On a cluster basis, we found that the ‘clarify request by adding specific
analyses, baselines, or references’ and ‘clarify desired improvements to theoretical analysis or proofs’ clusters
had the highest incorporation rate at 18%. The ‘clarify suggestions to visuals or format’ cluster had the

12

lowest incorporation rate at 14%. Overall, we do not see statistically significant differences in incorporation
rates among the clusters, implying that reviewers did not find certain categories of feedback to be more or
less useful than others.

4

Related Works

Due to their extensive capabilities, LLMs are being used across every stage of the peer review process.
Reviewers increasingly use LLMs to assist in drafting peer reviews [15, 29, 30]. An estimated 17.5% of
authors of Computer Science abstracts on arXiv [31] and 10.6% of reviewers at ICLR 2024 [16] used LLMs
for writing assistance. Other studies have shown the potential of LLMs to make the entire review pipeline
more efficient across various stages [32, 33, 34, 35] such as writing manuscripts [36], initial quality control
[37, 38, 27], and even providing AI-generated instructions for how to write reviews [39].
As peer review workloads continue to increase, LLMs present an opportunity to alleviate some of the
burden on human reviewers by providing reviews of submitted manuscripts. In a prospective survey study,
308 researchers from 110 institutions received GPT-4-generated feedback on their papers. Of these, 57.4%
found the feedback helpful, and 82.4% felt it was more useful than the feedback provided by at least some
human reviewers [12]. Building off of this work, [40] proposed a multi-agent review generation system that
improved the specificity and helpfulness of feedback provided compared to GPT-4, reducing the rate of
generic comments from 60% to 29%.
Furthermore, LLMs offer an efficient and possibly less biased alternative to human evaluations; [41] found
that human evaluators of peer reviews were highly susceptible to bias from review length and paper score,
as there were high levels of subjectivity among reviewers. These findings suggest that integrating LLMs into
the review evaluation process could standardize assessments and reduce inconsistencies. As LLM-based tools
continue to evolve, they hold the potential to improve both the speed and quality of manuscript evaluations.
Our experiment is the first to demonstrate how LLMs can improve the peer review process on a large scale,
highlighting their practical benefits.
However, despite these advancements, no prior studies had specifically examined how LLMs could be used
to provide feedback on peer reviews in the areas we focused on in our experiment. A study released after our
ICLR experiment, however, introduced a benchmark to identify toxicity in peer reviews [42]. The authors
identified four categories of toxic comments: using emotive or sarcastic language, vague or overly critical
feedback, personal attacks, and excessive negativity. These categories align closely with the ones we chose
for our agent to provide feedback on. The authors benchmarked several LLMs for detecting toxicity and
tested their ability to revise toxic sentences, finding that human evaluators preferred 80% of these revisions.
In future iterations of our Review Feedback Agent, this benchmark could offer a valuable tool for testing our
pipeline’s ability to detect toxicity and offer constructive feedback.

5

Discussion

Our research demonstrates the significant potential of LLM-based systems to enhance peer review quality
at scale. By providing targeted feedback to reviewers at ICLR 2025, we observed meaningful improvements
in review specificity, engagement, and actionability. We saw that 27% of reviewers updated their reviews,
and an overwhelming majority of those who made updates incorporated at least one piece of feedback into
their modifications. Blinded AI researchers found the updated reviews to be consistently more clear and
informative. Furthermore, feedback intervention led to increased engagement throughout the review process,
with longer reviews, rebuttals, and reviewer responses, suggesting more involved discussions between authors
and reviewers.
We designed the AI feedback system to enhance reviews while ensuring human reviewers retain complete
control. First, the AI-generated feedback was purely optional, and reviewers could decide whether to incorporate it or not; by default, they could opt out by ignoring the feedback. Second, human reviewers had
full control over the final review and the scores visible to the authors. To reduce the risk of hallucination,
the AI feedback had to pass several rigorous reliability tests before being shared with reviewers. Finally, no
personal or identifiable information about reviewers or authors was disclosed to the agent. An IRB review
deemed the system to be low risk.
13

Going forward, there are several directions to further improve the Review Feedback Agent. Our feedback
categories focused on three main areas (improving specificity, addressing misunderstandings, and ensuring
professionalism). While these categories were derived from reviewer guides and previous studies and encompass the majority of author complaints, they may not capture all aspects of review quality. Expanding
to other categories would be helpful. Additionally, it would be interesting to explore the use of reasoning
models to generate more nuanced feedback for complex issues in reviews. Finally, the concept of developing
reliability tests for LLMs is an evolving field, with new studies emerging after our experiment [43, 44], and we
hope to incorporate ideas from these recent works to improve the robustness of our framework. Ultimately,
we expect that running this agent at future AI conferences across a diverse range of research topics will
improve its robustness and effectiveness.
CS conferences have long leveraged machine learning to enhance their peer review processes. One early
example is the Toronto Paper Matching algorithm, which was used in NIPS 2010 to match papers with
reviewers and has since been deployed by over 50 conferences [45]. However, the impact of many of these
earlier applications of machine learning has not been rigorously quantified. To address this gap, we were
motivated to conduct this randomized controlled study to rigorously evaluate the effects of review feedback
before broader deployment. Our findings show that by striving to make reviews more informative for authors,
the Review Feedback Agent has the potential to enhance the overall quality of scientific communication. As
LLM capabilities continue to advance, we anticipate even more advanced systems that can provide tailored
feedback to reviewers, ultimately benefiting the entire scientific community through improved peer review.

Acknowledgements
We would like to thank Celeste Martı́nez and Carlos Mondragon Chapa at OpenReview for their help in
integrating our agent into the OpenReview interface. We would also like to thank Alex Tamkin and Anthropic
for helping us increase our rate limits. Finally, we would like to thank members of the Zou group for their
support and comments on this work.

Author Contributions
NT, MY, JS, and JZ designed, developed, and deployed the Review Feedback Agent, conducted analyses,
and wrote the paper. AG, NP, FS, RY, and CV are program chairs of ICLR 2025 and provided guidance on
the feedback study and analysis.

References
[1] Bruce Alberts, Brooks Hanson, and Katrina L. Kelner. Editorial: Reviewing peer review. Science,
321(5885):15–15, 2008.
[2] Jacalyn Kelly, Tara Sadeghieh, and Khosrow Adeli. Peer review in scientific publications: benefits,
critiques, & a survival guide. Ejifcc, 25(3):227, 2014.
[3] Publons. Global state of peer review 2018, 2018.
[4] Ariful Azad and Afeefa Banu. Publication trends in artificial intelligence conferences: The rise of super
prolific authors, 2024.
[5] Alison McCook. Is peer review broken? submissions are up, reviewers are overtaxed, and authors
are lodging complaint after complaint about the process at top-tier journals. what’s wrong with peer
review?, 2006.
[6] ICLR. Iclr 2024 press release, 2024.
[7] Anna Rogers and Isabelle Augenstein. What can we do to improve peer review in NLP? In Trevor Cohn,
Yulan He, and Yang Liu, editors, Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP
2020, pages 1256–1262, Online, November 2020. Association for Computational Linguistics.
14

[8] Anna Rogers, Marzena Karpinska, Jordan Boyd-Graber, and Naoaki Okazaki. Program chairs’ report on
peer review at acl 2023. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages xl–lxxv, 2023.
[9] Martijn Arns. Open access is tiring out peer reviewers. Nature, 515:467, 2014.
[10] Corinna Cortes and Neil D. Lawrence. Inconsistency in conference peer review: Revisiting the 2014
neurips experiment, 2021.
[11] Anthropic. Claude 3.5 sonnet, 2024.
[12] Weixin Liang, Yuhui Zhang, Hancheng Cao, Binglu Wang, Daisy Yi Ding, Xinyu Yang, Kailas Vodrahalli, Siyu He, Daniel Scott Smith, Yian Yin, et al. Can large language models provide useful feedback
on research papers? a large-scale empirical analysis. NEJM AI, 1(8):AIoa2400196, 2024.
[13] Mert Yuksekgonul, Federico Bianchi, Joseph Boen, Sheng Liu, Zhi Huang, Carlos Guestrin, and James
Zou. Textgrad: Automatic ”differentiation” via text, 2024.
[14] Aman Madaan, Niket Tandon, Prakhar Gupta, Skyler Hallinan, Luyu Gao, Sarah Wiegreffe, Uri Alon,
Nouha Dziri, Shrimai Prabhumoye, Yiming Yang, Shashank Gupta, Bodhisattwa Prasad Majumder,
Katherine Hermann, Sean Welleck, Amir Yazdanbakhsh, and Peter Clark. Self-refine: Iterative refinement with self-feedback, 2023.
[15] Mohammad Hosseini and Serge P J M Horbach. Fighting reviewer fatigue or amplifying bias? considerations and recommendations for use of chatgpt and other large language models in scholarly peer
review. Research Integrity and Peer Review, 2023.
[16] Weixin Liang, Zachary Izzo, Yaohui Zhang, Haley Lepp, Hancheng Cao, Xuandong Zhao, Lingjiao Chen,
Haotian Ye, Sheng Liu, Zhi Huang, Daniel A. McFarland, and James Y. Zou. Monitoring ai-modified
content at scale: A case study on the impact of chatgpt on ai conference peer reviews, 2024.
[17] Yue Zhang, Yafu Li, Leyang Cui, Deng Cai, Lemao Liu, Tingchen Fu, Xinting Huang, Enbo Zhao,
Yu Zhang, Yulong Chen, et al. Siren’s song in the ai ocean: a survey on hallucination in large language
models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.01219, 2023.
[18] Jeffrey Zhou, Tianjian Lu, Swaroop Mishra, Siddhartha Brahma, Sujoy Basu, Yi Luan, Denny Zhou, and
Le Hou. Instruction-following evaluation for large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.07911,
2023.
[19] ICML 2023 program committee. Icml 2023 reviewer tutorial, 2023.
[20] ICML 2022 Program Chairs. How to be a good reviewer? reviewer tutorial for icml 2022, 2022.
[21] ACL PC Chairs. Last minute reviewing advice, 2017.
[22] Matias Valdenegro. Lxcv @ cvpr 2021 reviewer mentoring program: And how to write good reviews,
2021.
[23] Isabelle Augenstein Anna Rogers. Arr reviewer guidelines, 2021.
[24] Nyssa J Silbiger and Amber D Stubler. Unprofessional peer reviews disproportionately harm underrepresented groups in stem. PeerJ, 7:e8247, 2019.
[25] Mathieu Fenniak, Matthew Stamy, pubpub zz, Martin Thoma, Matthew Peveler, exiledkingcc, and
pypdf Contributors. The pypdf library, 2024.
[26] Marco Tulio Ribeiro and Scott Lundberg. Testing language models (and prompts) like we test software,
2023.

15

[27] Alexander Goldberg, Ihsan Ullah, Thanh Gia Hieu Khuong, Benedictus Kent Rachmat, Zhen Xu,
Isabelle Guyon, and Nihar B. Shah. Usefulness of llms as an author checklist assistant for scientific
papers: Neurips’24 experiment, 2024.
[28] Alex Tamkin, Miles McCain, Kunal Handa, Esin Durmus, Liane Lovitt, Ankur Rathi, Saffron Huang,
Alfred Mountfield, Jerry Hong, Stuart Ritchie, Michael Stern, Brian Clarke, Landon Goldberg,
Theodore R. Sumers, Jared Mueller, William McEachen, Wes Mitchell, Shan Carter, Jack Clark, Jared
Kaplan, and Deep Ganguli. Clio: Privacy-preserving insights into real-world ai use, 2024.
[29] Ryan Liu and Nihar B. Shah. Reviewergpt? an exploratory study on using large language models for
paper reviewing, 2023.
[30] Som Biswas, Dushyant Dobaria, and Harris L. Cohen. Chatgpt and the future of journal reviews: A
feasibility study. The Yale Journal of Biology and Medicine, 96(3):415–420, 2023.
[31] Weixin Liang, Yaohui Zhang, Zhengxuan Wu, Haley Lepp, Wenlong Ji, Xuandong Zhao, Hancheng Cao,
Sheng Liu, Siyu He, Zhi Huang, Diyi Yang, Christopher Potts, Christopher D Manning, and James Y.
Zou. Mapping the increasing use of llms in scientific papers, 2024.
[32] Nihar B. Shah. Challenges, experiments, and computational solutions in peer review. Commun. ACM,
65(6):76–87, May 2022.
[33] Simon Price and Peter A. Flach. Computational support for academic peer review: a perspective from
artificial intelligence. Commun. ACM, 60(3):70–79, February 2017.
[34] Atreyi Kankanhalli. Peer review in the age of generative ai. Journal of the Association