# FULL TEXT — An Illusion of Progress? Assessing the Current State of Web Agents

https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.01382v4

An Illusion of Progress? Assessing the Current State of Web Agents 

 1 Introduction 
 
 2 New Online-Mind2Web Benchmark 
 
 2.1 Why Introduce a New Benchmark? 
 2.2 Dataset Construction 

 3 WebJudge 
 
 4 Experiments and Results 
 
 4.1 Experimental Setup 
 4.2 Main Results 
 4.3 Comparison against Existing Evaluation Methods 
 4.4 The Generalization of WebJudge 

 5 Analysis 
 
 5.1 Agent Efficiency 
 5.2 Error Analysis and More Discussion 

 6 Conclusions 
 7 Acknowledgments 
 
 A Related Work 
 
 A.1 Web Agents and Benchmarks 
 A.2 Automatic Evaluation for Web Agents 

 B Experimental Details 
 
 B.1 The impact of evaluation granularity: WebJudge (CoT) vs. WebJudge (Keypoints-wise) 
 B.2 The impact of Google Search constraint 
 B.3 The influence of threshold θ \theta of Webjudge. 
 B.4 The Robustness of WebJudge 
 B.5 Detailed Results on AgentRewardBench 

 C Details of Task Construction 
 
 C.1 The website selection process 
 C.2 Task Distribution 

 D Prompts for WebJudge 
 
 D.1 Online-Mind2Web-Specific Prompts 
 D.2 General-Purpose Prompt 

 E Implementation Details 
 
 F Case Study 

 F.1 Case Study: Operator 
 
 F.1.1 Effective Utilization of Structured Search 
 F.1.2 Leveraging Tool-Based Navigation 
 F.1.3 Self-Verification and Error Correction 
 F.1.4 Failure Cases about Numeric and Temporal Constraints 

 F.2 Case Study: Other Agents 
 F.3 Examples of Hallucinations 

 G Task Examples 
 H Examples of WebJudge 

 An Illusion of Progress? Assessing the Current State of Web Agents 

Tianci Xue ♣   Weijian Qi ♣,∗    Tianneng Shi ♠,∗   Chan Hee Song ♣   Boyu Gou ♣ 
 
  Dawn Song ♠   Huan Sun ♣,†   Yu Su ♣,† 
 
  ♣ The Ohio State University 
   ♠ University of California, Berkeley 
 {xue.681, sun.397, su.809}@osu.edu 
   https://github.com/OSU-NLP-Group/Online-Mind2Web 

 Abstract 
 As digitalization and cloud technologies evolve, the web is becoming increasingly important in the modern society.
Autonomous web agents based on large language models (LLMs) hold a great potential in work automation.
It is therefore important to accurately measure and monitor the progression of their capabilities.
In this work, we conduct a comprehensive and rigorous assessment of the current state of web agents.
Our results depict a very different picture of the competency of current agents, suggesting over-optimism in previously reported results.
This gap can be attributed to shortcomings in existing benchmarks.
We introduce Online-Mind2Web, an online evaluation benchmark consisting of 300 diverse and realistic tasks spanning 136 websites.
It enables us to evaluate web agents under a setting that approximates how real users use these agents.
To facilitate more scalable evaluation and development, we also develop a novel LLM-as-a-Judge automatic evaluation method and show that it can achieve around 85% agreement with human judgment, substantially higher than existing methods.
Finally, we present the first comprehensive comparative analysis of current web agents, highlighting both their strengths and limitations to inspire future research. 

 {NoHyper} $*$ $*$ footnotetext: Equal contributions ${\dagger}$ ${\dagger}$ footnotetext: Corresponding authors 

 Figure 1: 
Frontier web agents show a drastic drop in success rate when evaluated on Online-Mind2Web (human evaluation) compared with those reported on WebVoyager  (He et al., 2024a ) . Surprisingly, many recent agents, except for Claude Computer Use 3.7 and Operator, do not outperform the simple SeeAct agent  (Zheng et al., 2024 ) released in early 2024. 

 1 Introduction 
 
 Language agents that integrate large language models (LLMs) to reason and communicate via language  (Su et al., 2024 ; Sumers et al., 2023 ) have quickly risen to the center stage of AI research and application.
This new generation of AI agents can operate in the digital world, such as browsing the web  (Deng et al., 2023 ; Zhou et al., 2024a ; Zheng et al., 2024 ) or using a computer  (Xie et al., 2024 ; Wu et al., 2024 ; Anthropic, 2024 ) , like humans do.
Accurately measuring and monitoring the progression of their capabilities is therefore critical because of their potential in disruptive automation and job displacement. 

 Recently, the field has seen several surprising results, claiming to achieve close to 90% success rate  (OpenAI, 2025 ; Müller Žunič, 2024 ) on the WebVoyager  (He et al., 2024a ) benchmark for web agents.
That has led to great enthusiasm and optimism.
However, as a scientific field, we must caution against over-optimism, especially when the supporting data may be insufficient or biased, because that leads to short-sightedness, unrealistic expectations, and irrational decisions. 

 In this work, we aim to conduct a rigorous assessment of the current state of web agents.
A major obstacle is the benchmark.
To get a comprehensive and accurate assessment of the competency of web agents, we should minimize the simulation-to-reality gap in the evaluation.
It should be under a setting that approximates how real users use such agents as much as possible, which means evaluating them on realistic tasks across a wide range of real-world websites.
However, most existing benchmarks either focus on offline evaluation with cached snapshots of websites  (Deng et al., 2023 ; Lu et al., 2024 ) or sandbox environments with a limited number of simulated websites  (Yao et al., 2022 ; Zhou et al., 2024a ; Koh et al., 2024a ) .
Among the benchmarks that focus on online evaluation  (He et al., 2024a ; Yoran et al., 2024 ; Pan et al., 2024b ) , WebVoyager is the most widely used.
However, as we will discuss in detail later (§ 2.1 ), WebVoyager has several shortcomings: (1) It lacks coverage and diversity in tasks and websites, (2) many tasks have shortcut solutions such that a simple agent that primarily uses Google Search can already solve up to 51% of the tasks, and (3) its LLM-as-a-Judge automatic evaluation has a low agreement with human judgment.
These issues together lead to substantially inflated evaluation results (Figure  1 ).
Therefore, a better online benchmark for web agents is needed for our assessment. 

 To this end, the main contributions of this work are three-fold: 

 1. 
 
 We introduce a new benchmark, Online-Mind2Web , that contains 300 diverse and realistic tasks spanning 136 websites.
We conduct careful manual evaluation of six frontier web agents, and the results depict a drastically different picture about the competency of current agents (Figure  1 ).
Many recent agents, except for Claude Computer Use 3.7  (Anthropic, 2025 ) and Operator  (OpenAI, 2025 ) , underperform the simple SeeAct agent  (Zheng et al., 2024 ) released in early 2024.
Even Operator only achieves a success rate of 61%, showing substantial room for improvement. 

 2. 
 
 As human evaluation is not scalable, to facilitate future agent development and evaluation, we develop a new automatic evaluation, WebJudge , based on LLM-as-a-judge  (Zheng et al., 2023 ) .
We show that it can reach around 85% agreement with human judgment and an average success rate gap of only 3.8%, significantly outperforming existing approaches.
Agent ranking under our automatic evaluation also closely aligns with human evaluation. Moreover, WebJudge demonstrates excellent generalization capabilities, achieving high precision and a small success rate gap across five well-known out-of-domain benchmarks. It is therefore a useful tool for rapid iteration on agent development and evaluation. 

 3. 
 
 We also conduct the first comprehensive comparative analysis on the current web agents, which leads to novel insights on their respective advantages and limitations and sheds light on further improvement. 

 2 New Online-Mind2Web Benchmark 

 2.1 Why Introduce a New Benchmark? 
 
 To get an accurate assessment of the competency of web agents, we need to evaluate them on realistic tasks across a wide range of real-world websites under a setting that approximates how real users use such agents as much as possible. However, existing benchmarks fail to meet these criteria in several ways: 

 • 
 
 Some benchmarks, such as the original Mind2Web  (Deng et al., 2023 ) or WebLINX  (Lu et al., 2024 ) , adopt an offline setting by caching portions of websites. While this setting facilitates rapid iteration during agent development, it inevitably suffers from incompleteness due to the dynamic nature of many websites. As a result, agents are restricted from exploring the environment and can only follow the annotated reference trajectory. 

 • 
 
 Sandbox environments like WebShop  (Yao et al., 2022 ) , (Visual-)WebArena (Zhou et al., 2024a ; Koh et al., 2024a ) mitigate the exploration issue, but the diversity of websites is inherently limited due to the sheer difficulty of creating full replica of modern websites. 

 • 
 
 A few benchmarks like WebVoyager  (He et al., 2024a ) , AssistantBench  (Yoran et al., 2024 ) , and Mind2Web-Live  (Pan et al., 2024b ) focus on the online setting, evaluating web agents on live, real-world websites. To facilitate automatic evaluation, AssistantBench only includes time-insensitive tasks, i.e., tasks with a closed-form, time-invariant answer string. While this is a reasonable compromise, it precludes the evaluation of agents on time-sensitive tasks requiring up-to-date information or procedural tasks that do not expect an answer string. Both WebVoyager and Mind2Web-Live are derived from the original Mind2Web benchmark. Mind2Web-Live includes only around 100 tasks, and its key node-based evaluation is still prone to changes in websites over time, making it less reliable. 

 Given the widespread use of WebVoyager in recent agent releases (Abuelsaad et al., 2024 ; Müller Žunič, 2024 ; Anthropic, 2024 ; OpenAI, 2025 ; Zhou et al., 2024b ; He et al., 2024b ; Azam et al., 2024 ; H Company, 2025 ; DeepMind, 2024 ) , we conduct a more detailed analysis. The tasks in WebVoyager are synthesized by using modified tasks from Mind2Web as seeds and prompting a language model to generate additional ones. Moreover, its coverage is limited to just 15 websites. Upon closer inspection, we find that the tasks are generally simple—potentially due to limitations in the task synthesis pipeline—and many of them require minimal navigation or interaction with the website. 

 Figure 2: 
Success rate of the simple search agent on WebVoyager vs. Online-Mind2Web.

 To quantify this observation, we develop a naive search agent that follows two simple steps: (1) generate a query for Google Search, and (2) click into a returned link to check the presence of the answer—without performing any further operations on the website. We randomly sample 100 tasks from WebVoyager, stratified by website, and manually evaluate the results. Surprisingly, this simple search agent can already achieve a 51 % 51\% success rate. This confirms our observation that the tasks in WebVoyager are skewed toward the easier end, and that many can be solved using shortcuts such as Google Search instead of navigating the websites. These factors—including the limited diversity of tasks and websites, along with issues in automatic evaluation (to be discussed in Section  3 )—help explain the substantial discrepancy observed in Figure 1 . 

 2.2 Dataset Construction 
 
 Given the shortcomings of existing benchmarks, we collect a new dataset tailored to enable rigorous and accurate evaluation of web agents.
The ever-evolving nature of websites makes evaluating web agents on online tasks challenging, as there does not always exist a fixed ground truth. To handle this issue, we first systematically verify the validity of tasks in existing datasets and construct an up-to-date dataset by filtering out: (1) Ambiguous tasks: tasks with unclear or vague instructions, leading to multiple possible interpretations. (2) Invalid tasks: tasks that are no longer executable due to structural changes in websites, removal of necessary features or outdated, resulting in the inability to obtain valid results. (3) CAPTCHA-protected websites: tasks involving websites with strong bot protection prevent agents from completing the task. 

 We begin by randomly selecting 650 tasks from the original Mind2Web dataset and evaluating their viability.
Our analysis shows that 47% of the tasks are either invalid or have outdated ground-truth trajectories.
Then, we construct our dataset by selecting 167 tasks from the original Mind2Web dataset that are as distinct as possible, rewriting another 24 tasks from Mind2Web, incorporating 34 tasks from Mind2Web-Live, 1 1 1 The tasks in Mind2Web-Live (Pan et al., 2024b ) are also adapted from Mind2Web and share a comparable level of difficulty. and manually creating 75 new tasks on websites with high traffic. 2 2 2 According to https://similarweb.com/ . 
It is worth highlighting that the reality and diversity of the original Mind2Web tasks stem from their being crowdsourced and rigorously validated. Following this principle, we adopt a similar procedure to ensure our tasks remain both realistic and broadly representative.
For each rewritten task, we primarily modify task requirements to guarantee solvability or refine the task description to eliminate ambiguity. 

 In total, we present a comprehensive benchmark of 300 high-quality and realistic tasks spanning 136 popular websites from various domains, designed to evaluate web agents on real-world settings systematically.
To obtain a fine-grained assessment of agents’ performance, we categorize tasks into three levels of difficulty based on the number of steps N s ​ t ​ e ​ p N_{step} required for a human annotator to complete them, which we refer to as reference length . Tasks with N s ​ t ​ e ​ p ≤ 5 N_{step}\leq 5 are labeled as easy, 6 ≤ N s ​ t ​ e ​ p ≤ 10 6\leq N_{step}\leq 10 as medium, and N s ​ t ​ e ​ p ≥ 11 N_{step}\geq 11 as hard. Finally, we have 83 easy tasks, 143 medium tasks and 74 hard tasks. More details about distribution and illustrative examples can be found in Appendix  C.2 and G.1 .
We are committed to maintaining the benchmark over time. If any tasks become outdated or infeasible, we will replace them with new ones of similar difficulty level to ensure fair comparison across versions. 

 We also evaluate the search agent on our benchmark, comprising 33 easy, 34 medium, and 33 hard-level tasks.
In contrast with WebVoyager, the search agent can only solve 22% of tasks on our benchmark, with success rates for easy, medium, and hard tasks nearly 50%, 18%, and 3%, respectively, highlighting the difficulty of our benchmark.
Overall, our tasks are sourced from real-world users, resulting in greater diversity and realism, whereas synthetic tasks often exhibit biases and similarity (Chen et al., 2024 ; Yu et al., 2023 ) .
Moreover, because our dataset encompasses a broad spectrum of popular websites, it more accurately captures the distribution of real-world scenarios. This is particularly important as tasks with identical objectives can differ significantly in complexity depending on the design and structure of the target website. Therefore, our benchmark provides a more accurate and realistic evaluation of web agents’ performance in real-world scenarios. 

 3 WebJudge 
 
 Figure 3: 
Illustration of WebJudge . (1) Key Point Identification: The model is prompted to identify several key points that are necessary for completing the task, based on the given task description.
(2) Key Screenshot Identification:
From a sequence of screenshots, key ones are selected
to retain relevant visual evidence while discarding uninformative frames.
(3) Outcome Judgement: Output the judgement result based on the task description, key points, key screenshots, and the action history. 

 Evaluating web agents in online environments is essential for a realistic performance assessment. However, conducting evaluations in unconstrained online settings presents significant challenges. Human evaluations are labor-intensive and do not scale effectively, while existing automatic methods such as rule-based and LLM-as-a-judge are still unreliable. Specifically, strict rule-based success criteria are sensitive to website changes, such as functional updates or URL modifications. Meanwhile, existing LLM-as-a-judge approaches still exhibit low agreement with human judgements (see Table  3 ), which may stem from either considering only the final screenshot, thereby overlooking crucial intermediate steps, or processing all screenshots within the trajectory, resulting in token overload and exceeding the context size limit. To further enhance the reliability and scalability of the evaluation process, we propose a new automatic evaluation method called WebJudge that preserves critical intermediate screenshots while mitigating the token overload issue. Specifically, given a task description T T , a sequence of actions A = ( a 1 , a 2 , ⋯ , a n ) A=(a_{1},a_{2},\cdots,a_{n}) and a trajectory comprising a sequence of screenshots I = ( i 1 , i 2 , ⋯ , i n ) I=(i_{1},i_{2},\cdots,i_{n}) , the Evaluator \operatorname{Evaluator} performs a binary classification to determine the outcome O O as either “Success” or “Failure”: 

 O = Evaluator ⁡ ( T , A , I ) . O=\operatorname{Evaluator}(T,A,I). 
 
 (1) 

 Specifically, our LLM-as-a-judge method consists of three steps: 

 1. 
 
 Key Point Identification: Typically, a task may involve several key requirements that the model must satisfy. Therefore, we first prompt the model to identify the key points K = ( k 1 , k 2 , … , k m ) K=(k_{1},k_{2},...,k_{m}) required for successful task completion based on the task description. For instance, completing a restaurant-related task may necessitate specifying the location and rating, which are considered critical key points. 

 2. 
 
 Key Screenshot Identification: Then, the model generates a descriptive summary for each screenshot and evaluates their relevance ( [ 1 , 5 ] [1,5] with 5 5 being the highest) to task completion. Screenshots with a score above or equal to a threshold δ \delta are filtered as key screenshots. This process allows the model to identify and focus on important intermediate steps for evaluation while not consuming too many tokens or exceeding the context size limit. 

 3. 
 
 Outcome Judgement: Finally, the Evaluator \operatorname{Evaluator} integrates identified key points, selected key screenshots, task description, and the action sequence to make a comprehensive judgment of task completion. We also examine how varying levels of granularity in WebJudge’s outcome judgment stage affect evaluation reliability. Specifically, comparing a chain-of-thought mode with a more fine-grained method that assesses each key point individually, where a task is deemed successful only if all key points are completed. See Appendix B.1 for details. 

 We compare our proposed method, WebJudge, with existing approaches, including Autonomous Evaluation  (Pan et al., 2024a ) , AgentTrek  (Xu et al., 2025 ) , and WebVoyager  (He et al., 2024a ) .
Different evaluators require varying inputs to conduct the evaluation. Table  1 provides a detailed overview of the input requirements for each automatic evaluator.
It’s worth noting that not all agents provide intermediate thoughts (e.g., Operator), and some agents (e.g., SeeAct) also do not return the final response. To ensure broader applicability and fairness in evaluation, we choose not to rely on the final response. Additionally, we observe that the final response is prone to contain hallucinations, which negatively impacts evaluation (See Appendix  F.3 for examples). Although it is well-known that LLMs potentially exhibit self-preference bias during evaluations (Wataoka et al., 2024 ; Panickssery et al., 2024 ) , this concern is mitigated in our setting: the LLM primarily judges environment observations (i.e., screenshots along an agent’s trajectory) rather than text or images generated by an LLM. As a result, the bias issue is less pronounced. 

 Evaluators 
 Screenshots 
 Action History 
 w/o Intermediate Thoughts 
 w/o Final Response 

 Autonomous Evaluation 
 ✓ 
 ✓ 
 ✓ 
 ✓ 

 AgentTrek 
 ✓ 
 ✓ 
 ✗ 
 ✓ 

 WebVoyager 
 ✓ 
 ✗ 
 ✓ 
 ✗ 

 WebJudge (Ours) 
 ✓ 
 ✓ 
 ✓ 
 ✓ 

 Table 1: Input requirements for various automatic evaluation methods. 

 While WebJudge effectively identifies and preserves critical intermediate screenshots, its computational cost and latency may limit its scalability. Specifically, the number of API calls scales proportionally with the number of screenshots in a trajectory. As a result, for agents that generate particularly long trajectories (e.g., Operator), the evaluation process will be costly. To reduce cost and improve reliability, we also aim to train a lightweight key screenshot identification model, WebJudge-7B , based on Qwen2.5-VL-7B  (Bai et al., 2025 ) , which offers lower inference cost while maintaining comparable or even achieving higher agreement with human judgment. See Appendix  E for details. 

 4 Experiments and Results 

 4.1 Experimental Setup 
 
 We evaluate six prominent web agents: SeeAct  (Zheng et al., 2024 ) , Browser Use  (Müller Žunič, 2024 ) , Agent-E  (Abuelsaad et al., 2024 ) , Claude Computer Use 3.5  (Anthropic, 2024 ) , Claude Computer Use 3.7  (Anthropic, 2025 ) , and Operator  (OpenAI, 2025 ) .
To better understand how well agents navigate on different websites and ensure fair comparisons, we initialize each task with a start URL and prompt agents not to use Google Search to prevent shortcuts. See Appendix B.2 for more detailed discussions about those constraints. 

 We use human annotation as the reference standard to rigorously evaluate the performance of agents and the effectiveness of automatic evaluators.
We manually annotate all the trajectories of six agents based on task descriptions, action history, and screenshots. Each task is labeled by at least two annotators, with a third resolving any conflicts. We measure agreement between all automatic evaluation methods and humans on final binary decisions. 

 See Appendix  E for implementation details of both web agents and automatic evaluators. 

 4.2 Main Results 

 Agent 
 Human Eval 
 WebJudge (GPT-4o) 
 WebJudge (o4-mini) 
 WebJudge-7B 

 SR 
 AR 
 SR 
 AR 
 SR 
 AR 

 SeeAct 
 30.7 30.7 
 39.8 39.8 
 86.7 86.7 
 30.0 30.0 
 85.3 85.3 
 28.0 28.0 
 86.0 86.0 

 Agent-E 
 28.0 28.0 
 34.7 34.7 
 86.0 86.0 
 27.0 27.0 
 86.3 86.3 
 26.0 26.0 
 87.3 87.3 

 Browser Use 
 30.0 30.0 
 40.1 40.1 
 81.4 81.4 
 26.0 26.0 
 89.3 89.3 
 24.3 24.3 
 88.3 88.3 

 Claude Computer Use 3.5 
 29.0 29.0 
 35.8 35.8 
 86.3 86.3 
 24.0 24.0 
 87.0 87.0 
 26.0 26.0 
 89.7 89.7 

 Claude Computer Use 3.7 
 56.3 56.3 
 59.7 59.7 
 79.1 79.1 
 47.3 47.3 
 82.3 82.3 
 48.7 48.7 
 84.3 84.3 

 OpenAI Operator 
 61.3 \mathbf{61.3} 
 71.8 \mathbf{71.8} 
 81.8 81.8 
 58.3 \mathbf{58.3} 
 83.7 83.7 
 59.0 \mathbf{59.0} 
 86.3 86.3 

 Avg Gap/AR 
 
 7.8 7.8 
 83.6 83.6 
 3.8 3.8 
 85.7 85.7 
 3.9 3.9 
 87.0 87.0 

 Table 2: Agent Success Rate (SR) as measured by human evaluation and WebJudge, along with Agreement Rate (AR) between WebJudge and human evaluation. 

 As shown in Table  2 , Claude Computer Use 3.7 and Operator stand out with a success rate of 56.3% and 61%, respectively, whereas the other agents achieve a similar success rate around 30%. These results stand in stark contrast to previously reported performance on WebVoyager (See Figure  1 ). We believe these results are better reflective of the competency of current web agents. The gap between WebJudge-predicted and human-evaluated success rates narrows as the underlying model’s reasoning ability improves. Notably, WebJudge powered by o4-mini achieves 85.7% agreement with a success rate gap of only 3.8%, demonstrating strong alignment with human judgment. Similarly, WebJudge-7B achieves a higher agreement of 87%, also with a small gap of 3.9%, while further reducing the number of API calls to only two per trajectory. Despite setting the temperature to 0, some inherent randomness remains in the evaluator (i.e., GPT-4o). To assess the robustness of WebJudge, we also execute the evaluation pipeline 3 times. The results shown in Figure  B.1 demonstrate that WebJudge exhibits high robustness with a low variance. Specifically, the average standard deviation of the six agents’ success rate is 1.1%, with a maximum of 1.8%. 

 We also break down agent performance by task difficulty to gain a more fine-grained understanding. The results in Figure  5 show a significant drop in performance as task complexity increases. Specifically, the average success rate decreases by 31.6% when moving from easy to medium tasks, followed by an additional 15.4% drop from medium to hard tasks.
Claude Computer Use 3.5 demonstrates a relatively stronger performance on hard tasks than open-source agents but lags behind on medium tasks.
Claude Computer Use 3.7 and Operator achieve a high success rate of 90.4% and 83.1% on easy tasks but still struggle with harder tasks, potentially due to insufficient long-horizon planning and exploration abilities. 

 Figure 4: 
Agent success rate by task difficulty. All agents struggle with harder tasks.

 Figure 5: 
Agreement between WebJudge and human evaluation with respect to the number of action steps by Operator.

 4.3 Comparison against Existing Evaluation Methods 
 
 We evaluate the agreement with human judgment for different automatic evaluation methods powered by the general-purpose GPT-4o and the reasoning-focused o4-mini. The results in Table  3 demonstrate that WebJudge consistently achieves the highest agreement with an average of 83.6% and 85.7%, respectively. WebJudge not only exhibits a minimal gap in success rates but also produces agent rankings that closely align with human evaluation (Table  2 ). In addition, it is generally applicable to all output formats of web agents, making it a useful tool for agent development and evaluation to complement human evaluation. 

 Model 
 Auto-Eval 
 SeeAct 
 Agent-E 
 Browser Use 
 Claude 3.5 
 Claude 3.7 
 Operator 
 Avg AR 

 GPT-4o 
 Autonomous Eval 
 84.7 
 85.0 
 76.0 
 83.7 
 75.5 
 71.7 
 79.4 

 AgentTrek Eval 
 73.0 
 64.3 
 63.3 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 66.9 

 WebVoyager 
 – 
 75.3 
 71.3 
 74.0 
 72.0 
 76.7 
 73.9 

 WebJudge 
 86.7 
 86.0 
 81.4 
 86.3 
 79.1 
 81.8 
 83.6 

 o4-mini 
 Autonomous Eval 
 79.7 
 85.7 
 86.0 
 84.3 
 68.0 
 73.3 
 79.5 

 WebVoyager 
 – 
 80.3 
 79.0 
 81.7 
 74.3 
 78.3 
 78.7 

 WebJudge 
 85.3 
 86.3 
 89.3 
 87.0 
 82.3 
 83.7 
 85.7 

 WebJudge-7B 
 86.0 
 87.3 
 88.3 
 89.7 
 84.3 
 86.3 
 87.0 

 Table 3: Agreement Rate (AR) among different automatic evaluation methods across six agents. 

 Notably, WebVoyager’s evaluation shows a relatively low agreement rate. We find that a primary factor is the presence of hallucination in the agent’s final responses (See Appendix  F.3 for examples), which frequently leads to a high false positive rate during the evaluation process. This may also be a contributor to the seemingly high results previously reported on WebVoyager (e.g., Browser Use’s evaluation was based on WebVoyager’s automatic evaluation). Similarly, the evaluation in  Pan et al. ( 2024a ) also shows a lower agreement as it considers only the final screenshot, disregarding intermediate screenshots that are crucial for assessing task completion. This phenomenon is especially pronounced in the Operator, which tends to generate longer trajectories, often exceeding 100 screenshots. 

 To further illustrate these problems, we evaluate how the agreement changes with the number of action steps from Operator’s trajectories. As the trajectory length increases, the human agreement of both WebVoyager and Autonomous Evaluation decline significantly. This is due to inherent limitations in their methods: WebVoyager suffers from token overload caused by an excessive number of screenshots, while Autonomous Evaluation overlooks important intermediate steps by focusing solely on the final screenshot. In contrast, our method maintains a relatively high agreement even when the number of action steps reaches 80. This result highlights the effectiveness of our key screenshot identification strategy, which reduces the number of screenshots while preserving critical intermediate information. 

 4.4 The Generalization of WebJudge 
 
 To further demonstrate the generalizability and effectiveness of WebJudge, we evaluate it on AgentRewardBench (Lù et al., 2025 ) , which comprises 1,302 trajectories spanning 5 popular benchmarks: WebArena (WA), VisualWebArena (VWA), AssistantBench (AB), WorkArena (Work), and WorkArena++ (Wk++). As shown in Table  4 , WebJudge(GPT-4o), WebJudge-7B, and WebJudge(o4-mini) significantly outperform existing methods by relying solely on screenshots and action history as input, achieving impressive overall precision of 73.7% 75.7% and 82.0%, respectively. The high precision suggests that WebJudge holds potential as a robust and scalable reward model for downstream applications such as Rejection Sampling Fine-Tuning (RFT) (Liu et al., 2024a ; Yuan et al., 2023 ) , Reflection (Shinn et al., 2023 ; Xue et al., 2023 ; Paul et al., 2024 ) , and Reinforcement Learning (RL) (Ziegler et al., 2019 ; Ouyang et al., 2022 ) , where it could serve to provide reliable feedback or filter out noisy trajectories. We leave these for future work. Moreover, the results in Table  5 suggest that success rates predicted by WebJudge(GPT-4o) align more closely with human judgments than those of existing methods, including official rule-based evaluation. Specifically, WebJudge achieves an average gap of only 5.9%, which is significantly smaller than that of the rule-based method (9.8%) and the existing approach (8.1%). While WebJudge (o4-mini) achieves exceptionally high precision comparable to the rule-based method and offers greater scalability, it also tends to be overly conservative, resulting in relatively low recall. This strictness leads to a larger success rate gap compared to human evaluation.
In contrast, WebJudge-7B strikes a balance, achieving both high precision (75.7%) and a smaller success rate gap (6.0%), while significantly reducing costs to a fixed two calls per trajectory, making it a reliable and scalable evaluator for further research.
Overall, these findings further emphasize the effectiveness and reliability of WebJudge as an automatic evaluator, making it a valuable tool for rapid iteration in agent development and evaluation (e.g., RFT, RL and reflection). 

 Methods 
 AB 
 VWA 
 WA 
 Work 
 Wk++ 
 Overall 

 Rule-based * 
 25.0 
 85.2 
 79.0 
 100.0 
 83.3 
 83.8 

 Autonomous Eval* 
 83.3 
 61.2 
 67.6 
 96.4 
 59.3 
 67.6 

 GPT-4o (A11y Tree)* 
 77.8 
 63.0 
 70.2 
 94.6 
 63.0 
 69.8 

 WebJudge (GPT-4o) 
 66.7 
 69.8 
 72.6 
 92.3 
 75.0 
 73.7 

 WebJudge-7B 
 80.0 
 66.7 
 77.5 
 100.0 
 70.0 
 75.7 

 WebJudge (o4-mini) 
 100.0 
 74.5 
 81.2 
 100.0 
 90.0 
 82.0 

 Table 4: We follow previous settings and report the results of precision on AgentRewardBench (Lù et al., 2025 ) . To ensure a fair comparison , we utilize the same version of GPT-4o (gpt-4o-2024-11-20) for WebJudge. GPT-4o (A11y Tree) is the previous best result based on the accessibility tree. * indicates results are taken from Lù et al. ( 2025 ) . 

 Agent 
 
 Human Eval * 
 
 GPT-4o (A11y Tree) * 
 
 Rule-based * 
 WebJudge (GPT-4o) 
 WebJudge (o4-mini) 
 WebJudge-7B 

 VWA 
 WA 
 Wk++ 
 VWA 
 WA 
 Wk++ 
 VWA 
 WA 
 Wk++ 
 VWA 
 WA 
 Wk++ 
 VWA 
 WA 
 Wk++ 
 VWA 
 WA 
 Wk++ 

 Claude 3.7 
 28.3 
 55.1 
 18.4 
 34.8 
 64.1 
 20.7 
 23.9 
 30.8 
 8.1 
 31.5 
 52.6 
 16.1 
 18.5 
 33.3 
 3.5 
 22.8 
 44.9 
 10.3 

 GPT-4o 
 35.9 
 42.3 
 18.4 
 47.8 
 50.0 
 11.5 
 17.4 
 25.6 
 4.6 
 31.5 
 46.2 
 9.2 
 20.7 
 32.1 
 3.5 
 29.4 
 38.5 
 4.6 

 Llama 3.3 
 – 
 22.4 
 9.2 
 – 
 27.6 
 5.8 
 – 
 18.4 
 3.5 
 – 
 30.3 
 3.5 
 – 
 14.5 
 1.2 
 – 
 23.7 
 1.2 

 Qwen2.5-VL 
 21.7 
 33.3 
 13.8 
 34.8 
 52.6 
 14.9 
 17.4 
 29.5 
 11.5 
 30.4 
 44.9 
 8.1 
 20.7 
 29.5 
 3.5 
 22.8 
 35.9 
 6.9 

 Gap 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 10.5 
 10.3 
 3.4 
 9.1 
 12.2 
 8.0 
 5.4 
 6.5 
 5.7 
 8.7 
 10.9 
 12.0 
 4.4 
 4.5 
 9.2 

 Avg Gap 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 8.1 
 9.8 
 5.9 
 10.5 
 6.0 

 Table 5: Comparison of web agent success rates evaluated by humans, GPT-4o (A11y Tree), rule-based and WebJudge across various benchmarks. * indicates results are taken from Lù et al. ( 2025 ) . 

 5 Analysis 

 5.1 Agent Efficiency 
 
 Since different web agents may require different numbers of steps to complete the same task, we introduce an efficiency metric E E . Specifically, let S i S_{i} be the number of steps an agent takes for task i i , and S ^ ​ i \hat{S}i be the corresponding reference length. The efficiency score E E is defined as the average ratio across the success set 𝒯 succ \mathcal{T}_{\text{succ}} . A lower value of E E indicates greater efficiency: 

 E = 1 | 𝒯 succ  | ​ ∑ i ∈ 𝒯 succ  S i S ^ i . E=\frac{1}{\left|\mathcal{T}_{\text{succ }}\right|}\sum_{i\in\mathcal{T}_{\text{succ }}}\frac{S_{i}}{\hat{S}_{i}}_{.} 
 
 (2) 

 Figure  7 shows the efficiency score of each agent, as well as the average number of action steps taken on successful and failed tasks.
We identify two key findings: 1) Longer agent trajectories at failed tasks: Agents take notably more steps for failed tasks, primarily due to repeated actions or unexpected pop-up windows. In Browser Use, Claude Computer Use 3.7 and Operator, failed tasks involve nearly twice as many steps as successful ones. 2) Exploration vs. exploitation trade-off: Operator heavily favors exploration, i.e., extensively exploring a website on the fly, to maximize task completion while trading off efficiency ( 2.6 × 2.6\times human reference, up to 44 minutes for challenging tasks). Other agents tend to directly commit to a certain (greedy) strategy, achieving a higher efficiency ( 1.0 × (1.0\times human) but prone to getting stuck at dead ends. 

 Figure 6: Average number of steps and efficiency score across agents. For efficiency score, the lower, the better. 

 Figure 7: Operator’s error distribution. Operator mainly struggles with Filter Sorting ( 57.7 % 57.7\% ) and Navigation ( 19.6 % 19.6\% ). 

 5.2 Error Analysis and More Discussion 
 
 To gain a fine-grained understanding of agents’ limitations, we manually analyze the error cases and categorize them into the following types: 

 • 
 
 Filter Sorting Errors : Applying incorrect filters or sorting options, or failing to apply them when required. 

 • 
 
 Incomplete Steps : Omitting critical steps, e.g., not clicking the “Submit” button after filling out a form, or failing to open detailed pages after a search. 

 • 
 
 Navigation Errors : Deviating from the intended navigation sequence. 

 • 
 
 Misunderstanding : Failing to grasp the main goal of the task entirely. 

 • 
 
 Others : Rare or uncategorized failure cases. 

 We focus our detailed analysis on Operator , as it represents the state-of-the-art performance among existing web agents (see Figure  7 ).
We first highlight key advantages that contribute to Operator’s strong overall performance, followed by an analysis of its primary limitations as well as those of other agents. 

 Limitations of Operator. Although Operator has certain advantages, it also exhibits two notable limitations. First, it frequently fails to satisfy numerical and temporal constraints specified in the task instructions, either by overlooking or applying incorrect value ranges. This observation aligns with prior work indicating that LLMs are sensitive to numerical inputs (Jain et al., 2023 ; Qian et al., 2023 ) . Second, despite its generally exploratory behavior, Operator sometimes misses niche website features required to complete certain tasks. See Appendix  F.1.4 for examples. 

 Limitations of Other Agents. In contrast to Operator, other agents exhibit a different set of failure modes. These agents frequently neglect task requirements and often hallucinate unmet constraints. They also display limited exploration ability and perform repetitive behavior, such as prematurely terminating or redundantly repeating actions when confronted with uncertainty or interruptions. Furthermore, they tend to rely excessively on keyword-based search strategies, which leads to suboptimal results. Appendix  F.2 provides further instances of such failures. 

 6 Conclusions 
 
 We introduce Online-Mind2Web, a comprehensive and realistic benchmark designed to rigorously assess the performance of web agents. Through extensive human evaluations, we find that existing frontier agents still struggle with online tasks, as most agents successfully complete only 30% of them. To enable scalable and reliable evaluation, we further propose a novel automatic evaluation method that identifies and preserves critical intermediate screenshots while mitigating the token overload issue. Our approach achieves the highest agreement with human judgments among existing methods and demonstrates superior precision, making it a promising reward model for downstream applications such as RFT, RL, and reflection. Finally, we present an in-depth analysis and highlight several key limitations of these agents, including sensitivity to numerical or temporal constraints, lack of exploration ability, and over-reliance on keyword-based search. 

 7 Acknowledgments 
 
 The authors would thank colleagues from the OSU NLP group for constructive feedback. This research was sponsored in part by NSF CAREER #1942980, the Berkeley Center for Responsible Decentralized Intelligence (RDI), and gifts from Cisco, Orby AI, and Amazon. We also appreciate computational resources provided by the Ohio Supercomputer Center. The views and conclusions contained herein are those of the authors and should not be interpreted as representing the official policies, either expressed or implied, of the U.S. government. The U.S. Government is authorized to reproduce and distribute reprints for Government purposes notwithstanding any copyright notice herein. 

 References 

 Abuelsaad et al. (2024) 
 
Tamer Abuelsaad, Deepak Akkil, Prasenjit Dey, Ashish Jagmohan, Aditya Vempaty, and Ravi Kokku.

 Agent-e: From autonomous web navigation to foundational design principles in agentic systems.

 CoRR , abs/2407.13032, 2024.

 doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.2407.13032 .

 URL https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2407.13032 .

 Anthropic (2024) 
 
Anthropic.

 Developing a computer use model.

 Anthropic News , Oct 2024.

 URL https://www.anthropic.com/news/developing-computer-use .

 Anthropic (2025) 
 
Anthropic.

 Claude 3.7 sonnet and claude code.

 Anthropic News , Feb 2025.

 URL https://www.anthropic.com/news/claude-3-7-sonnet .

 Azam et al. (2024) 
 
Ruhana Azam, Tamer Abuelsaad, Aditya Vempaty, and Ashish Jagmohan.

 Multimodal auto validation for self-refinement in web agents, 2024.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.00689 .

 Bai et al. (2025) 
 
Shuai Bai, Keqin Chen, Xuejing Liu, Jialin Wang, Wenbin Ge, Sibo Song, Kai Dang, Peng Wang, Shijie Wang, Jun Tang, Humen Zhong, Yuanzhi Zhu, Mingkun Yang, Zhaohai Li, Jianqiang Wan, Pengfei Wang, Wei Ding, Zheren Fu, Yiheng Xu, Jiabo Ye, Xi Zhang, Tianbao Xie, Zesen Cheng, Hang Zhang, Zhibo Yang, Haiyang Xu, and Junyang Lin.

 Qwen2.5-vl technical report, 2025.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13923 .

 Bai et al. (2023) 
 
Yushi Bai, Jiahao Ying, Yixin Cao, Xin Lv, Yuze He, Xiaozhi Wang, Jifan Yu, Kaisheng Zeng, Yijia Xiao, Haozhe Lyu, et al.

 Benchmarking foundation models with language-model-as-an-examiner.

 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , volume 36, pp. 78142–78167, 2023.

 Chen et al. (2024) 
 
Jie Chen, Yupeng Zhang, Bingning Wang, Xin Zhao, Ji-Rong Wen, and Weipeng Chen.

 Unveiling the flaws: Exploring imperfections in synthetic data and mitigation strategies for large language models.

 In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2024 , pp. 14855–14865, Miami, Florida, USA, November 2024. Association for Computational Linguistics.

 doi: 10.18653/v1/2024.findings-emnlp.873 .

 URL https://aclanthology.org/2024.findings-emnlp.873/ .

 DeepMind (2024) 
 
Google DeepMind.

 Project mariner, 2024.

 URL https://deepmind.google/technologies/project-mariner/ .

 Accessed: March 29, 2025.

 Deng et al. (2023) 
 
Xiang Deng, Yu Gu, Boyuan Zheng, Shijie Chen, Sam Stevens, Boshi Wang, Huan Sun, and Yu Su.

 Mind2web: Towards a generalist agent for the web.

 In A. Oh, T. Naumann, A. Globerson, K. Saenko, M. Hardt, and S. Levine (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , volume 36, pp. 28091–28114. Curran Associates, Inc., 2023.

 URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2023/file/5950bf290a1570ea401bf98882128160-Paper-Datasets_and_Benchmarks.pdf .

 Fernandes et al. (2023) 
 
Patrick Fernandes, Daniel Deutsch, Mara Finkelstein, Parker Riley, André Martins, Graham Neubig, Ankush Garg, Jonathan Clark, Markus Freitag, and Orhan Firat.

 The devil is in the errors: Leveraging large language models for fine-grained machine translation evaluation.

 In Philipp Koehn, Barry Haddow, Tom Kocmi, and Christof Monz (eds.), Proceedings of the Eighth Conference on Machine Translation , pp. 1066–1083, Singapore, December 2023. Association for Computational Linguistics.

 doi: 10.18653/v1/2023.wmt-1.100 .

 URL https://aclanthology.org/2023.wmt-1.100/ .

 Furuta et al. (2024) 
 
Hiroki Furuta, Kuang-Huei Lee, Ofir Nachum, Yutaka Matsuo, Aleksandra Faust, Shixiang Shane Gu, and Izzeddin Gur.

 Multimodal web navigation with instruction-finetuned foundation models.

 In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations , 2024.

 URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=efFmBWioSc .

 Gou et al. (2025) 
 
Boyu Gou, Ruohan Wang, Boyuan Zheng, Yanan Xie, Cheng Chang, Yiheng Shu, Huan Sun, and Yu Su.

 Navigating the digital world as humans do: Universal visual grounding for GUI agents.

 In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations , 2025.

 URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=kxnoqaisCT .

 Gu et al. (2024) 
 
Yu Gu, Boyuan Zheng, Boyu Gou, Kai Zhang, Cheng Chang, Sanjari Srivastava, Yanan Xie, Peng Qi, Huan Sun, and Yu Su.

 Is your llm secretly a world model of the internet? model-based planning for web agents.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.06559 , 2024.

 Gur et al. (2024) 
 
Izzeddin Gur, Hiroki Furuta, Austin V Huang, Mustafa Safdari, Yutaka Matsuo, Douglas Eck, and Aleksandra Faust.

 A real-world webagent with planning, long context understanding, and program synthesis.

 In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations , 2024.

 H Company (2025) 
 
H Company.

 A research update… charting a new route: The tech behind runner h’s state-of-the-art results, 2025.

 URL https://www.hcompany.ai/blog/a-research-update .

 Accessed: March 29, 2025.

 He et al. (2024a) 
 
Hongliang He, Wenlin Yao, Kaixin Ma, Wenhao Yu, Yong Dai, Hongming Zhang, Zhenzhong Lan, and Dong Yu.

 WebVoyager: Building an end-to-end web agent with large multimodal models.

 In Lun-Wei Ku, Andre Martins, and Vivek Srikumar (eds.), Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pp. 6864–6890, Bangkok, Thailand, August 2024a. Association for Computational Linguistics.

 doi: 10.18653/v1/2024.acl-long.371 .

 URL https://aclanthology.org/2024.acl-long.371/ .

 He et al. (2024b) 
 
Hongliang He, Wenlin Yao, Kaixin Ma, Wenhao Yu, Hongming Zhang, Tianqing Fang, Zhenzhong Lan, and Dong Yu.

 Openwebvoyager: Building multimodal web agents via iterative real-world exploration, feedback and optimization, 2024b.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.19609 .

 Hong et al. (2024) 
 
Wenyi Hong, Weihan Wang, Qingsong Lv, Jiazheng Xu, Wenmeng Yu, Junhui Ji, Yan Wang, Zihan Wang, Yuxiao Dong, Ming Ding, et al.

 CogAgent: A visual language model for GUI agents.

 In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pp. 14281–14290, 2024.

 Hu et al. (2024) 
 
Siyuan Hu, Mingyu Ouyang, Difei Gao, and Mike Zheng Shou.

 The dawn of GUI agent: A preliminary case study with claude 3.5 computer use.

 CoRR , abs/2411.10323, 2024.

 doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.2411.10323 .

 URL https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2411.10323 .

 Humphreys et al. (2022) 
 
Peter C Humphreys, David Raposo, Tobias Pohlen, Gregory Thornton, Rachita Chhaparia, Alistair Muldal, Josh Abramson, Petko Georgiev, Adam Santoro, and Timothy Lillicrap.

 A data-driven approach for learning to control computers.

 In International Conference on Machine Learning , pp. 9466–9482. PMLR, 2022.

 Jain et al. (2023) 
 
Raghav Jain, Daivik Sojitra, Arkadeep Acharya, Sriparna Saha, Adam Jatowt, and Sandipan Dandapat.

 Do language models have a common sense regarding time? revisiting temporal commonsense reasoning in the era of large language models.

 In Houda Bouamor, Juan Pino, and Kalika Bali (eds.), Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pp. 6750–6774, Singapore, December 2023. Association for Computational Linguistics.

 doi: 10.18653/v1/2023.emnlp-main.418 .

 URL https://aclanthology.org/2023.emnlp-main.418/ .

 Koh et al. (2024a) 
 
Jing Yu Koh, Robert Lo, Lawrence Jang, Vikram Duvvur, Ming Lim, Po-Yu Huang, Graham Neubig, Shuyan Zhou, Russ Salakhutdinov, and Daniel Fried.

 VisualWebArena: Evaluating multimodal agents on realistic visual web tasks.

 In Lun-Wei Ku, Andre Martins, and Vivek Srikumar (eds.), Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pp. 881–905, Bangkok, Thailand, August 2024a. Association for Computational Linguistics.

 doi: 10.18653/v1/2024.acl-long.50 .

 URL https://aclanthology.org/2024.acl-long.50/ .

 Koh et al. (2024b) 
 
Jing Yu Koh, Stephen McAleer, Daniel Fried, and Ruslan Salakhutdinov.

 Tree search for language model agents.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.01476 , 2024b.

 Lai et al. (2024) 
 
Hanyu Lai, Xiao Liu, Iat Long Iong, Shuntian Yao, Yuxuan Chen, Pengbo Shen, Hao Yu, Hanchen Zhang, Xiaohan Zhang, Yuxiao Dong, et al.

 Autowebglm: A large language model-based web navigating agent.

 In Proceedings of the 30th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , pp. 5295–5306, 2024.

 Li et al. (2023) 
 
Xuechen Li, Tianyi Zhang, Yann Dubois, Rohan Taori, Ishaan Gulrajani, Carlos Guestrin, Percy Liang, and Tatsunori B. Hashimoto.

 Alpacaeval: An automatic evaluator of instruction-following models.

 https://github.com/tatsu-lab/alpaca_eval , 5 2023.

 Liu et al. (2024a) 
 
Tianqi Liu, Yao Zhao, Rishabh Joshi, Misha Khalman, Mohammad Saleh, Peter J Liu, and Jialu Liu.

 Statistical rejection sampling improves preference optimization.

 In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations , 2024a.

 URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=xbjSwwrQOe .

 Liu et al. (2024b) 
 
Xiao Liu, Bo Qin, Dongzhu Liang, Guang Dong, Hanyu Lai, Hanchen Zhang, Hanlin Zhao, Iat Long Iong, Jiadai Sun, Jiaqi Wang, Junjie Gao, Junjun Shan, Kangning Liu, Shudan Zhang, Shuntian Yao, Siyi Cheng, Wentao Yao, Wenyi Zhao, Xinghan Liu, Xinyi Liu, Xinying Chen, Xinyue Yang, Yang Yang, Yifan Xu, Yu Yang, Yujia Wang, Yulin Xu, Zehan Qi, Yuxiao Dong, and Jie Tang.

 Autoglm: Autonomous foundation agents for guis, 2024b.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00820 .

 Lu et al. (2024) 
 
Xing Han Lu, Zdenek Kasner, and Siva Reddy.

 Weblinx: Real-world website navigation with multi-turn dialogue.

 In Forty-first International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML 2024, Vienna, Austria, July 21-27, 2024 . OpenReview.net, 2024.

 URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=mUSPhG4uDW .

 Lù et al. (2025) 
 
Xing Han Lù, Amirhossein Kazemnejad, Nicholas Meade, Arkil Patel, Dongchan Shin, Alejandra Zambrano, Karolina Stańczak, Peter Shaw, Christopher J. Pal, and Siva Reddy.

 Agentrewardbench: Evaluating automatic evaluations of web agent trajectories, 2025.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08942 .

 Müller Žunič (2024) 
 
Magnus Müller and Gregor Žunič.

 Browser use = state of the art web agent, 2024.

 URL https://browser-use.com/posts/sota-technical-report .

 OpenAI (2025) 
 
OpenAI.

 Introducing operator.

 OpenAI Blog , Jan 2025.

 URL https://openai.com/index/introducing-operator/ .

 Ouyang et al. (2022) 
 
Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida, Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong Zhang, Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, et al.

 Training language models to follow instructions with human feedback.

 In Advances in neural information processing systems , volume 35, pp. 27730–27744, 2022.

 Pan et al. (2024a) 
 
Jiayi Pan, Yichi Zhang, Nicholas Tomlin, Yifei Zhou, Sergey Levine, and Alane Suhr.

 Autonomous evaluation and refinement of digital agents.

 In First Conference on Language Modeling , 2024a.

 URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=NPAQ6FKSmK .

 Pan et al. (2024b) 
 
Yichen Pan, Dehan Kong, Sida Zhou, Cheng Cui, Yifei Leng, Bing Jiang, Hangyu Liu, Yanyi Shang, Shuyan Zhou, Tongshuang Wu, and Zhengyang Wu.

 Webcanvas: Benchmarking web agents in online environments.

 In Trustworthy Multi-modal Foundation Models and AI Agents (TiFA) , 2024b.

 URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=1TOW5WCtAW .

 Panickssery et al. (2024) 
 
Arjun Panickssery, Samuel R. Bowman, and Shi Feng.

 LLM evaluators recognize and favor their own generations.

 In The Thirty-eighth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems , 2024.

 URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=4NJBV6Wp0h .

 Paul et al. (2024) 
 
Debjit Paul, Mete Ismayilzada, Maxime Peyrard, Beatriz Borges, Antoine Bosselut, Robert West, and Boi Faltings.

 REFINER: Reasoning feedback on intermediate representations.

 In Yvette Graham and Matthew Purver (eds.), Proceedings of the 18th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pp. 1100–1126, St. Julian’s, Malta, March 2024. Association for Computational Linguistics.

 URL https://aclanthology.org/2024.eacl-long.67/ .

 Qi et al. (2025) 
 
Zehan Qi, Xiao Liu, Iat Long Iong, Hanyu Lai, Xueqiao Sun, Jiadai Sun, Xinyue Yang, Yu Yang, Shuntian Yao, Wei Xu, Jie Tang, and Yuxiao Dong.

 WebRL: Training LLM web agents via self-evolving online curriculum reinforcement learning.

 In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations , 2025.

 URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=oVKEAFjEqv .

 Qian et al. (2023) 
 
Jing Qian, Hong Wang, Zekun Li, Shiyang Li, and Xifeng Yan.

 Limitations of language models in arithmetic and symbolic induction.

 In Anna Rogers, Jordan Boyd-Graber, and Naoaki Okazaki (eds.), Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pp. 9285–9298, Toronto, Canada, July 2023. Association for Computational Linguistics.

 doi: 10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.516 .

 URL https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.516/ .

 Shi et al. (2017) 
 
Tianlin Shi, Andrej Karpathy, Linxi Fan, Jonathan Hernandez, and Percy Liang.

 World of bits: An open-domain platform for web-based agents.

 In International Conference on Machine Learning , pp. 3135–3144. PMLR, 2017.

 Shinn et al. (2023) 
 
Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Ashwin Gopinath, Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu Yao.

 Reflexion: Language agents with verbal reinforcement learning.

 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , volume 36, pp. 8634–8652, 2023.

 Su et al. (2024) 
 
Yu Su, Diyi Yang, Shunyu Yao, and Tao Yu.

 Language agents: Foundations, prospects, and risks.

 In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing: Tutorial Abstracts , pp. 17–24, Miami, Florida, USA, November 2024. Association for Computational Linguistics.

 URL https://aclanthology.org/2024.emnlp-tutorials.3 .

 Sumers et al. (2023) 
 
Theodore Sumers, Shunyu Yao, Karthik Narasimhan, and Thomas Griffiths.

 Cognitive architectures for language agents.

 Transactions on Machine Learning Research , 2023.

 Wataoka et al. (2024) 
 
Koki Wataoka, Tsubasa Takahashi, and Ryokan Ri.

 Self-preference bias in llm-as-a-judge.

 arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.21819 , 2024.

 Wu et al. (2024) 
 
Zhiyong Wu, Chengcheng Han, Zichen Ding, Zhenmin Weng, Zhoumianze Liu, Shunyu Yao, Tao Yu, and Lingpeng Kong.

 Os-copilot: Towards generalist computer agents with self-improvement.

 In ICLR Workshop on Large Language Model (LLM) Agents , 2024.

 Xie et al. (2024) 
 
Tianbao Xie, Danyang Zhang, Jixuan Chen, Xiaochuan Li, Siheng Zhao, Ruisheng Cao, Jing Hua Toh, Zhoujun Cheng, Dongchan Shin, Fangyu Lei, et al.

 Osworld: Benchmarking multimodal agents for open-ended tasks in real computer environments.

 Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 37:52040–52094, 2024.

 Xu et al. (2025) 
 
Yiheng Xu, Dunjie Lu, Zhennan Shen, Junli Wang, Zekun Wang, Yuchen Mao, Caiming Xiong, and Tao Yu.

 Agenttrek: Agent trajectory synthesis via guiding replay with web tutorials.

 In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations , 2025.

 URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=EEgYUccwsV .

 Xue et al. (2023) 
 
Tianci Xue, Ziqi Wang, Zhenhailong Wang, Chi Han, Pengfei Yu, and Heng Ji.

 Rcot: Detecting and rectifying factual inconsistency in reasoning by reversing chain-of-thought, 2023.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.11499 .

 Yao et al. (2022) 
 
Shunyu Yao, Howard Chen, John Yang, and Karthik Narasimhan.

 Webshop: Towards scalable real-world web interaction with grounded language agents.

 In S. Koyejo, S. Mohamed, A. Agarwal, D. Belgrave, K. Cho, and A. Oh (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , volume 35, pp. 20744–20757. Curran Associates, Inc., 2022.

 URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2022/file/82ad13ec01f9fe44c01cb91814fd7b8c-Paper-Conference.pdf .

 Yoran et al. (2024) 
 
Ori Yoran, Samuel Joseph Amouyal, Chaitanya Malaviya, Ben Bogin, Ofir Press, and Jonathan Berant.

 AssistantBench: Can web agents solve realistic and time-consuming tasks?

 In Yaser Al-Onaizan, Mohit Bansal, and Yun-Nung Chen (eds.), Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pp. 8938–8968, Miami, Florida, USA, November 2024. Association for Computational Linguistics.

 doi: 10.18653/v1/2024.emnlp-main.505 .

 URL https://aclanthology.org/2024.emnlp-main.505/ .

 Yu et al. (2023) 
 
Yue Yu, Yuchen Zhuang, Jieyu Zhang, Yu Meng, Alexander J Ratner, Ranjay Krishna, Jiaming Shen, and Chao Zhang.

 Large language model as attributed training data generator: A tale of diversity and bias.

 In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , volume 36, pp. 55734–55784, 2023.

 Yuan et al. (2023) 
 
Zheng Yuan, Hongyi Yuan, Chengpeng Li, Guanting Dong, Keming Lu, Chuanqi Tan, Chang Zhou, and Jingren Zhou.

 Scaling relationship o