# FULL TEXT — Command A: An Enterprise-Ready Large Language Model

https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.00698v2

Command A:
An Enterprise-Ready Large Language Model
Cohere1

Abstract
In this report we describe the development of Command A, a powerful large language model purpose-built to
excel at real-world enterprise use cases. Command A is an agent-optimised and multilingual-capable model,
with support for 23 languages of global business, and a novel hybrid architecture balancing efficiency with top
of the range performance. It offers best-in-class Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) capabilities with
grounding and tool use to automate sophisticated business processes. These abilities are achieved through
a decentralised training approach, including self-refinement algorithms and model merging techniques. We
also include results for Command R7B which shares capability and architectural similarities to Command A.
Weights for both models have been released for research purposes. This technical report details our original
training pipeline and presents an extensive evaluation of our models across a suite of enterprise-relevant tasks
and public benchmarks, demonstrating excellent performance and efficiency.

1

Introduction

Large Language Models (LLMs) are Artificial Intelligence (AI) models designed to understand and generate human-like text conditioned on the input they receive. Recent advancements have led to remarkable
breakthroughs in their ability to comprehend and produce human language with unparalleled accuracy and
fluency. This progress has been instrumental in their widespread adoption across various real-world and
enterprise environments, where they significantly boost operational efficiency and deepen understanding.
This technical report describes the development of Command A and Command R7B, two LLMs designed to
excel in real-world enterprise settings. Both the 111B parameter Command A and Command R7B perform
best-in-class across a suite of established benchmarks for their respective model sizes. We also highlight
key innovations and technical contributions including data and architectural optimisations, self-refinement
algorithms, and a model merging-based approach optimised to bring out expert-level performance across
capabilities within a single set of model weights, providing fast and efficient performance.
Command A is tailored for excellent performance in enterprise-relevant settings such as Retrieval Augmented
Generation (RAG), where models can interact with, understand, and process information distributed across a
wide range of documents. As part of this focus, our models also excel in the multilingual setting, supporting 23
key languages of global business: English, French, Spanish, Italian, German, Portuguese, Japanese, Korean,
Arabic, Chinese, Russian, Polish, Turkish, Vietnamese, Dutch, Czech, Indonesian, Ukrainian, Romanian,
Greek, Hindi, Hebrew, and Persian.
Along with its impressive overall performance, achieving best-in-class results for any model in its size and
efficiency range on common benchmarks such as MATH, Command A outperforms across an extensive
suite of human evaluation tasks as shown in Figure 1. Furthermore, Command A achieves strong results on
enterprise-relevant agentic benchmarks such as Taubench, as shown in Table 1.
Command A focuses on delivering competitive performance as efficiently as possible. With a serving footprint
of just two A100s or H100s, Command A requires considerably less computational overhead than comparable
models. This is of particular importance for privacy-preserving enterprise settings and on-premises deployments. Command A can deliver tokens at a rate of up to 156 tokens/sec which is 1.75x higher than GPT-4o
and 2.4x higher than DeepSeek V3.
1 Please cite this technical report as “Cohere (2025)”. A full author list can be found at the end of this document.

1

Released as a preprint on April 7, 2025

Human Preference Evaluation
Command A vs DeepSeek-V3

Command A vs GPT-4o (Nov)
General 
Business

50.4%​

49.6%​

General 
Business

49.0%​

51.0%​

STEM

51.4%​

48.6%​

STEM

49.3%​

50.7%​

Code

46.8%​

53.2%​

Code

54.7%​

45.3%​

Agents

Code

Multilingual

8B
3.1

Mi
nis
tra
l 8B

mm
Co

Lla
ma

and

R7

70B
Lla
ma

GP
T-4

o

eek
epS
De

3.3

V3

A
and
mm

Academic

Benchmark

Co

Capability

B

Figure 1: Head-to-head human evaluation win rates. All examples are blind-annotated by specially trained
human annotators, assessing enterprise-focused accuracy, instruction following, and style.

MMLU

85.5

88.5

85.7

86.0

65.2

71.1

71.1

MATH

80.0

70.2

68.5

77.0

59.1

51.9

54.5

IFEval

90.9

86.1

83.8

92.1

77.9

78.6

59.0

GPQA

50.8

59.1

53.6

50.5

26.3

23.4

23.4

Taubench

51.7

39.1

51.2

21.0

BFCL

63.8

58.6

72.1

51.4

52.2

50.9

51.8

MBPP+

86.2

89.9

86.5

84.4

72.0

72.8

61.1

Bird-SQL

59.5

53.1

50.5

58.0

42.2

41.9

33.2

RepoQA

92.6

92.2

91.2

85.6

69.6

73.6

62.0

NTREX

68.8

69.8

71.0

62.5

48.1

49.2

36.8

Table 1: Command A and Command R7B results on key academic, agentic, code and multilingual benchmarks, in comparison to relevant external models.
We also release model weights to the research community to facilitate community-based exploration under
a CC-BY-NC License (Non-Commercial) with an acceptable use addendum. The model checkpoints are
available on the HuggingFace model hub.

2

Pre-training

2.1

Overview

Pre-training language models involves training a model on trillions of tokens of unlabelled text data to learn
general language patterns, syntax, and semantics, enabling it to generate contextually relevant responses.
This foundational step leverages self-supervised learning techniques, such as next-token prediction, to build
a versatile representation of language that can subsequently be fine-tuned for specific downstream tasks. Pretraining is computationally intensive but essential for achieving state-of-the-art performance across diverse
natural language processing applications.

2

2.2

Data

Command A models are trained on multilingual data (also see Section 3.3.3.1) from various sources including
publicly available text and code data from the web, a collection of synthetic datasets generated internally,
instruction-tuning datasets obtained from human annotators, and high quality data sourced from specialised
data vendors. We optimise the web text data by enhancing the ratio of educational samples that are relatively
sparse on the internet, and down-sampling low-quality samples identified by Machine Learning (ML)-based
quality filters after careful de-duplication and heuristic filtering for safety and quality. The final data mixture
is determined by running a series of ablations using smaller models.

2.3

Model Architecture

Command A
Tokenizer

- Vocabulary size : 255,000
- Multilingual
- Special tokens for chat turns, tool calls.

Command A Transformer Block (SWA)

Input embeddings

Sliding Window
Self-A!ention

Self-A!ention

Transformer Block 2

Self-A!ention

(SWA)

MLP

Transformer Block 3

Self-A!ention

(SWA)

MLP

Transformer Block 4

Self-A!ention

(Full)

MLP

...
Transformer Block N

LM Head

Self-A!ention

MLP

Interleaved SWA and
full a!ention (3:1 ratio)

(Full)

- Grouped-query a!ention
- RoPE positional embeddings
Shared input and output embeddings

Transformer Block 1

(SWA)

MLP
- SwiGLU activation
- No bias terms

Command A Transformer Block (Full)
Full
Self-A!ention

MLP

- Grouped-query a!ention
- No positional embeddings

MLP
- SwiGLU activation
- No bias terms

Output embeddings

Figure 2: Schematic of the Command A model architecture.
We use a decoder-only Transformer architecture (Vaswani et al., 2017) as depicted in Figure 2. We highlight
a few key architectural decisions below:
• SwiGLU. The SwiGLU activation (Shazeer, 2020) demonstrates performance improvements over other
activation functions.
• Interleaved attention layers. We use interleaved layers of sliding window attention and full attention
in 3:1 ratio. Each sliding window layer uses Rotary Positional Embeddings (RoPE) (Su et al., 2021) and
every full attention layer uses No Positional Embeddings (NoPE) (Kazemnejad et al., 2023). Further
details can be found in Yang et al. (2025).
• GQA. We use grouped-query attention (GQA; (Ainslie et al., 2023)) to increase serving throughput.
We use document masking to ensure that each individual sequence in a batch can only attend to itself.
• Parallel transformer block. This shows equivalent performance but significant improvement in
throughput compared to the vanilla transformer block.
• No bias. Similar to PaLM (Chowdhery et al., 2023), we do not employ bias terms, which improves
training stability at larger scales.
• Input and output embeddings. We share the input and output embedding matrices, which provides
a large reduction in memory requirements due to our large vocabulary size. We do not observe any
performance degradation across ablations.

3

2.4

Pre-training Recipe

We perform most of our hyperparameter optimisation at considerably smaller scales than those representing
our final family of models. We use µP and µTransfer (Yang et al., 2021) to tune hyper-parameters on smaller
models and zero-shot transfer them to our larger models. Sweeps are performed for each model size as they
assume a fixed number of layers.
2.4.1

Distributed Training

We train all our models on our NVIDIA H100 GPU cluster using our internal JAX-based (Frostig et al.,
2018) distributed training framework. Our framework leverages JAX’s GSPMD (Xu et al., 2021) as the
backbone to implement complex sharding strategies. We split the available GPUs into a mesh with four axes
for each of the following sharding schemes:
• Data Parallel (DP) axis shards the activations along the batch dimension, which behaves as standard
data parallel training when all GPUs are allocated to it.
• Fully Sharded Data Parallel (FSDP) axis shards both the activations along the batch dimension
and model states along a specified dimension. The model states are replicated across the data parallel
axis to contain the communication costs to the FSDP submesh.
• Sequence Parallel (SP). Given the restrictions on critical batch-size of LLMs, scaling the number of
GPUs in pure FSDP/DP scenarios is infeasible. We thus use sequence parallelism (Li et al., 2023b) to
shard activations along the sequence dimension. The activations after the QKV projection are sharded
along the heads dimension to remove communication costs during the attention computation. The
attention outputs are sharded on the outer dimension, and the weight matrix of the final attention
output transformation is sharded along the contracting dimension as in Megatron-style (Shoeybi et al.,
2019) sharding. This allows us to operate using a single all-gather and a single reduce-scatter for the
activations, while only gathering QKV and attention outputs along the FSDP axis. At the feed forward
block, the FFN transformation is independent along the sequence axis, therefore there is no need for
any activation communication. Moreover, since we use parallel attention and a FFN block setup, we
completely overlap the computation of the FFN expansion layer and the all-gather of the attention
activations. The reduce-scatter after the attention block is further overlapped with the execution of the
FFN reduction layer. Since all other major operations such as layer norm, input and output embedding
layers are independent along the sequence axis, they incur no communications along the activations.
• Tensor Parallel (TP) axis for a pure Megatron-style sharding, where two complementary matrix
multiplications are sharded such that the activations are all-gathered before the first matrix multiplication (where the weight is sharded on the outer axis, resulting in the activations being sharded on the
outer axis as well), and one all-reduce after the second matrix multiplication (to sum the partial outputs). Pure TP is desirable when moving activations between devices as it is much cheaper compared
to moving weights, a layout class sometimes referred to as weight-stationary (Pope et al., 2023). We
use pure TP for fast decoding and in low batch-size scenarios.
Our models are trained with varying combinations of the parallelism strategies mentioned above. During
pre-training, since we are in the high batch-size and throughput regime, we opt for a combination of DP,
FSDP and SP to minimise activation communication. Furthermore, we can unroll the model’s forward loop
to overlap the communication of the weights of the next layer with the execution of the current layer.
We leverage Hopper-specific features such as FP8 tensor cores (Micikevicius et al., 2022) to further improve
throughput. While many works have reported instability while training with FP8 precision for long training
horizons (Fishman et al., 2025), we observe no such instability. In fact, we observe minimal run interventions
due to loss spikes and optimisation instability. We keep our main weights and optimiser states in FP32
precision, and cast the model weights to BF16 or FP8 prior to the computation. We keep sensitive operations
such as exponentials, softmaxes, layer norms, and output embeddings in FP32 precision, and run the attention
computation in BF16 precision. While we do not observe any training instabilities with FP8 matmuls, we
notice that there is a small but non-trivial degradation in downstream performance if the entire training
run is in FP8. To mitigate this effect, we first perform a number of steps in BF16 precision, which brings
performance back to the full BF16 trained model’s performance range.

4

Model
Merging

RAG, Tool Use &
Agents Expert
(RL)

Expert
Weights
RAG & Agents
Multilingual

Multilingual
Code

Multilingual Expert
(RL)

Code

Reasoning

Reasoning

Long-Context

Code Expert
(SFT)

Safety

Long-Context

Code Expert
(RL)

Safety

Instruction

Math & Reasoning
Expert
(SFT)

Instruction-Tuned
Checkpoint

Instruction

Math & Reasoning
Expert
(RL)

Merged Checkpoint
Long Context Expert
(SFT)

(SFT Soup Model)

Merged Checkpoint
(RL Soup Model)

Long Context Expert
(RL)

Safety Expert
(SFT)

Safety Expert
(RL)

Instruction-Following
Expert
(SFT)

Instruction-Following
Expert
(RL)

Reinforcement Learning (RLHF)

Multilingual Expert
(SFT)

Polishing

Oﬄine-Preference Reinforcement Learning (RL)

Expert
Weights
RAG & Agents

Reinforcement
Learning

Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT)

RAG, Tool Use &
Agents Expert
(SFT)

Model
Merging

Oﬄine-Preference Reinforcement Learning (RL)

Supervised
Fine-Tuning

Figure 3: Command A goes through multiple post-training phases including two weighted model merging
steps, and a model polishing phase.

2.5

Cooldown

We linearly anneal the learning rate from 2.5 × 10−4 to 1 × 10−6 for 50,000 steps in BF16 precision with
purposely curated high quality datasets. The context length is initially maintained at 8k tokens for the
first 30,000 steps, then extended to 32k, 128k, and 256k for 10,000, 5,000, and 5,000 steps respectively by
interleaving long context pre-training data every fourth step. During the long-context stages, we adjust the
overall ratio of datasets to ensure a balanced mixture across domains (Fu et al., 2024), while maintaining a
sufficient proportion of long-context data.

3

Post-training

3.1

Overview

Command A is post-trained using a novel decentralised approach to maximise and control its performance
over a wide spectrum of domains and capability areas. More precisely, Command A is trained by alternating
centralised training stages, where a single model is fine-tuned, and decentralised training stages, where
multiple expert models are trained separately to maximise domain-wise performance before merging their
parameters. Although the classic post-training paradigm involves training a single model sequentially with
varying data-mixtures (Dubey et al., 2024; Team et al., 2024), Command A is the first large-scale attempt
to combine multiple parallel expert tracks, with parameter merging techniques playing a central role. This
section details the high-level post-training recipe of Command A, illustrated in Figure 3.
We divide the global Command A post-training recipe into several sub-stages, each producing intermediary
model artifacts:
• Instruct Model: We train an initial Instruct model with supervised learning on top of the base model
to provide the core basic capabilities of the model.
• SFT Expert Models: We train six SFT experts on top of the Instruct checkpoint with specialised
data mixtures to maximise capability-specific performance.
• SFT Soup Model: We merge the six model experts into a Soup model with parameter-merging
methods (see Section 3.4) to produce a single SFT aggregate model.
5

• RL Expert Models: We train six RL experts on top of the SFT Soup checkpoint using RL algorithms
tailored to each domain, using pairwise comparisons or verifiable rewards.
• RL Soup Model: We merge the six RL experts into a RL Soup model with parameter-merging
methods to produce a single RL aggregate model.
• Polished Model: We perform a final stage on the RL Soup model to enhance human interaction
performance by alternating between best-of-N methods, offline preference, and online RL algorithms.
Six expert models are created at each expert stage: Code, Safety, RAG, Math, Multilingual, and a General
Long-Context expert. This approach allows us to adapt each expert’s training procedure, tailoring it to the
specific capability or domain of interest. This allows fine-grained hyperparameter tuning, specialised data
mixture optimisation, local optimisation (e.g., seed merging), and the capability-specific selection of the
most appropriate algorithms. This becomes even more crucial during the RL stage, as different domains
demand distinct RL techniques — for example, verifiable rewards for Math and Code, or preference pairs
for Safety and Multilingual. Our late-merging procedure allows us to re-balance Soup model performance a
posteriori without requiring additional training (§3.4). From an organisational perspective, merging allows
contributors to collaborate closely in parallel, fostering a unique model development synergy. Overall, this
decentralised training procedure maximises individual expert performance while controlling the final global
model capacity, allowing us to optimise both model performance and efficiency.
Finally, the model undergoes a polishing phase to improve its writing style. First, we apply a best-of-N
supervised training stage to the RL Soup model. Then, we alternate between offline preference and online RL
optimisation in a ping-pong approach, iterating as required until we observe a human preference performance
plateau, to obtain the final Command A model.
In the following sections, we introduce the methods and algorithms that we use at various stages of the
post-training process. We detail individual expert recipe considerations and provide further technical details
on the merging techniques applied. Finally, we discuss key features of the model polishing phase.

3.2

Methods

3.2.1

Supervised Fine-Tuning

In all cases, the first stage of our post-training pipeline involves finetuning the pretrained model to follow
instructions and operate in a conversational setting. We structure Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) (Wei et al.,
2021; Sanh et al., 2021) datapoints as prompts and completions. Prompts are model input sequences that may
contain information such as preambles or system prompts defining expected model behaviour, tool specifications, conversational history, special tokens (e.g., <|START_OF_TURN_TOKEN|> or <|SYSTEM_TOKEN|>), and
queries or instructions. Completions refer to the sequence of tokens that the model is trained to generate
conditioned on a given prompt. We train the model using a cross-entropy loss with the loss corresponding
to prompt tokens masked out. Depending on the specific setting, we may choose to regularise training either
by including some small proportion of pretraining data, or a parameter-based L2 penalty to the pretrained
model. We optimise using the AdamW algorithm (Loshchilov & Hutter, 2017) with decoupled weight decay.
3.2.2

Reinforcement Learning

Depending on the stage and task, we perform direct alignment using preference training (Rafailov et al.,
2024; Azar et al., 2024) or we optimise for a reward signal through reinforcement learning (RL) (Sutton et al.,
2023), either offline or online. This reward signal can be the learnt reward model, or a verifiable reward (for
example, based on unit tests for code generation or on response correctness for reasoning).
3.2.2.1

Preference Training with Self-refinement

We consider preference training methods for learning offline from preference datasets: Sequence Likelihood
Calibration, or SLiC (Zhao et al., 2023), Direct Preference Optimisation, or DPO (Rafailov et al., 2024), and
Identity Preference Optimisation, or IPO (Azar et al., 2024). In addition to these conventional preferencetraining methods, our model-training pipeline incorporates our novel Self-improving Robust Preference Optimisation (SRPO) (Choi et al., 2025). This recently-developed approach represents a significant departure

6

from traditional preference training techniques, introducing a novel mechanism for continuously enhancing
model alignment and robustness. It amounts to solving the following min-max optimisation problem:
min max Ex Ey1 ∼π(·|x),y2 ∼π† (·|x,y1 ) [P (y2 ≻ y1 |x) − β KL(π† ||πref |x, y1 ) + β KL(π||πref |x)] .
π

π†

This objective function aims to learn a self-improvement policy π† that can improve generations from π,
according to the preference model P without deviating too much from a reference model πref , and at the
same time at learning a policy π of which generations cannot be improved by π† . SRPO’s novelty partly
lies in its robustness: unlike classical methods, it does not depend on the sampling distribution of the
preference dataset. This independence ensures greater generalisation and stability in varied deployment
scenarios. Furthermore, SRPO uniquely enables iterative self-revision at inference time, a process where the
model sequentially refines its output: Given an initial prompt, the model first generates an initial completion
using the generative policy π, followed by multiple sequential refinements through the self-refinement policy
π † , each progressively improving the quality and alignment of the final output. This iterative refinement
capability is not present in conventional alignment pipelines, underscoring SRPO’s innovative contribution.
3.2.2.2

Optimising the Reward Model with RL

When given a reward function, be it the reward model or a verifiable reward, we consider the classic KLregularised reinforcement learning objective, J(π) = Ex Ey∼π(·|x) [R(x, y) − β KL(π||πref |x)]. In all settings
(offline or online), we optimise it using the recent Contrastive Policy Gradient approach, or CoPG (FletBerliac et al., 2024). For a prompt x and k > 1 completions y1 , . . . , yk of arbitrary origin, the corresponding
loss to be minimised is
2
π(y|x)
1 X π
Rβ (x, yi ) − Rβπ (x, yj ) with Rβπ (x, y) = R(x, y) − β ln
.
ℓ(x, y1 , . . . , yk ; π) =
k − 1 i>j
πref (y|x)
The CoPG loss can be used in both the offline and online cases. In the online case, it can be used with
a replay buffer, possibly combined with additional datasets, or in a pure on-policy fashion, in which case
it is equivalent to Reinforce Leave-One Out, or RLOO (Ahmadian et al., 2024). Furthermore, Flet-Berliac
et al. (2024) show that the gradient of this loss is a form of (negative) off-policy policy gradient, not relying
on importance sampling, clipping, or on an additional value network. It also comes with strong theoretical
guarantees, notably estimating the KL-regularised optimal policy π ∗ even in the offline case, and generalising
policy gradient and some preference training approaches. In the offline case, it can be used with any dataset,
as long as there is more than one completion per prompt, and that we can compute the associated rewards.
We mostly use CoPG offline and online on-policy.
3.2.3

Reward Models

We train a Bradley-Terry reward model for use in online preference learning, evaluation, and data filtering.
Similar to Gunter et al. (2024), we use a cross-entropy loss with soft labels as targets.
We find that reward models tend to suffer from high memorisation, causing catastrophic collapse in performance on a second epoch over the same data; so, we train the model in two stages. The first stage consists
of approximately 4 million samples designated as “lower quality” and relabelled using an ensemble of reward
models. Training is carried out for one epoch with a batch size of 1024 with a cosine learning rate schedule
with a peak of 4 × 10−5 . The second stage consists of approximately 350,000 high quality samples, with
labels derived from the strength of human preferences, ensembles of models (with labels inconsistent with
human annotations moved to the first stage), or a constant label value of 0.999 for gold-standard data and
0.5 for gold-standard tied pairs. This stage uses a smaller batch size of 16, and a lower maximum learning
rate of 3 × 10−6 . Both stages use packed data, where multiple pairs of preference data are encoded in a single
training sample for efficiency, using attention masking to avoid different (non-packed) samples influencing
each other. The pairs are left-padded to align their <EOS_TOKEN>, and distributed to aim for a 75% fill while
keeping the number of samples per row as uniform as possible, ensuring an equal loss contribution.
Our internal reward model scores 92.7% on RewardBench (Lambert et al., 2024), and achieves an average
score of 72.3% on RMB (Zhou et al., 2024).
7

3.3

Capabilities

3.3.1

Instruction-Following

Core instruction-following capabilities are crucial for LLMs to solve tasks across areas and domains. We
therefore consider instruction-following a prerequisite for more specific model capabilities focusing on advanced topics such as code, multilingual, and reasoning. As such, in the Command A post-training recipe, we
teach the model to follow instructions across a wide range of topics and domains, including but not limited to
generalist instruction-following (e.g., factual knowledge requests), formatting, STEM-specific tasks (e.g., tabular reasoning, structured data manipulation), and preamble compliance. Instruction-following capabilities
are acquired both via SFT and offline preference tuning.
3.3.1.1

Data collection

Our data collection approach can be divided based on the post-training method, i.e., SFT or preference
tuning. To collect datasets that serve both of these, we primarily rely on synthetic prompt generation in
conjunction with human annotation, and explore various sampling and filtering techniques (Bartolo et al.,
2021). Specifically, we synthetically generate diverse sets of prompts covering a range of instructions tailored
to individual domains (such domains are mostly enterprise-oriented) and generate two completions per
prompt sampled with different temperatures. We then ask human annotators to provide discrete ratings for
both completions. This process is repeated over multiple turns, resulting in a multi-turn dataset. If the two
completion ratings are not tied and the better completion does not obtain the highest possible rating, we
ask the annotator to improve the better completion.
SFT samples. SFT datasets are constructed using the human rewrites obtained from the process mentioned
above, to ensure the highest completion quality.
Preference pairs. We construct preference pairs directly from the obtained samples by considering completions with different ratings (including the human rewrites), with ties excluded. It is worth noting that the
obtained preference samples are used to train both Command A and our reward model itself.
3.3.1.2

Iterative Reward-based Sample Refinement

We further experiment with reward-based sample refinement approaches to obtain both SFT and preference
pairs using the synthetically-generated prompts. Similar to Dubey et al. (2024), we use internal reward
models trained on our most recent Command A checkpoints in conjunction with a collection of both humanwritten completions and completions generated from different checkpoints under different conditions (e.g.,
varying temperature values) during post-training This implies that the resulting dataset does not contain
purely synthetic completions, and human-written completions are retained for inputs where the models fail
to generate high-quality completions. We approach this in an iterative fashion, where we use the most recent
checkpoints at a given point in time to generate completions, score those completions using our reward
model, create preference pairs and SFT samples using the scores, re-train our models, and repeat.
3.3.1.3

Preambles

A specific focus of the instruction-following post-training of Command A lies in the model’s ability to follow
preamble (or system prompt) requirements. Preambles are designed to contain instructions that should apply
to an entire conversation and potentially multiple model inputs, meaning that instead of having to repeat
instructions in every prompt, they can be defined directly in the preamble. Such system instructions could
specify what language the model should reply in (e.g., “Always respond in French.”), the desired format of
model generations (e.g., “Always use JSON.”, “Do not generate Markdown.”), or the exclusion of specific words
and phrases (e.g., “Do not use the word ‘LLM’ in your response.”). To train Command A to follow preamble
instructions, we develop methods based on synthetic data generation to create diverse preambles that are
attached to prompts flowing into the above-described pipeline. The preambles are then taken into account
when creating the respective completions and preferences, i.e., preamble-augmented data is used during
both SFT and preference tuning. During preamble generation, we aim to maximise instruction diversity to
encourage robustness to a wide range of instructions at inference time.

8

3.3.1.4

Model training

In the context of instruction-following we post-train Command A in sequence with SFT and preference
tuning. For preference tuning, we experiment with a range of methods, including SLiC, IPO, DPO, and
SRPO (for further details, see Section 3.2.2). We find that SRPO performs best across evaluation tasks and
select a checkpoint trained using SRPO for the final Instruct model.
3.3.2

Retrieval Augmented Generation, Tool Use and Agents

Recent breakthroughs have propelled LLMs beyond simple chatbots, transforming them into versatile agents
capable of navigating complex environments. At the heart of this evolution is their ability to use tools
strategically: invoking APIs, analysing results, and iterating dynamically to accomplish goals. This agentic behaviour is pivotal for two key advancements. First, integrating knowledge sources outside of model
parameters (e.g., via Retrieval-Augmented Generation, or RAG) mitigates hallucinations and ensures accurate information beyond the timespan of model training. Second, agentic frameworks empower models to
orchestrate vast action chains, potentially executing hundreds of API calls to automate intricate workflows.
Together, these capabilities expand LLMs’ operational horizons, enabling them to tackle tasks once deemed
beyond their reach.
3.3.2.1

Agentic Tool-Use

Empowering LLMs with Tools. LLMs have demonstrated remarkable proficiency in leveraging external
tools to enhance their capabilities (Schick et al., 2023). By generating API calls, models can execute specific
actions—like performing calculations or retrieving information—to solve tasks more effectively. This process
typically involves providing a set of tool definitions in the model’s preamble. When faced with a task, the
model selects and invokes the appropriate tools, and the results are fed back to inform its final response.
A prime example of this is Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG). In RAG (Lewis et al., 2020), the model
has access to a search tool (e.g. a dense embedding index) to answer information-seeking queries. It generates
search queries, retrieves relevant snippets from the selected knowledge source, and uses this context to craft
a well-informed response.
Agents. For more intricate tasks, models may need to orchestrate multiple tools across several steps. This
requires a structured approach to halt generation, extract tool calls, execute them, and reintroduce results
into the model’s workflow—a process repeated until the task is resolved.
We roughly follow the ReAct framework (Yao et al., 2022), a widely adopted method for guiding LLMs
through dynamic problem-solving. ReAct enables models to interleave reasoning and action: they first articulate their thought process, outlining plans and tool requirements, then either execute a tool (via structured
outputs like JSON) or deliver a final answer. This iterative loop enables adaptive planning, reflection, and
interaction with external systems, making it ideal for complex, multi-step tasks.
3.3.2.2

Data and Training

We train our model on a combination of human-annotated and synthetically generated data. We collect
datapoints in multiple languages to directly supervise on, as well as datapoints with preference judgments
for multiple completions. The data covers areas of code tool execution, user-uploaded documents, and general
API environments. Training consists of an SFT step on agentic datasets followed by offline preference tuning
using the Contrastive Policy Gradient loss (§3.2.2.2).
Data format. Each datapoint contains a user prompt along with a set of available tools and potentially
custom model instructions that the user has provided to the model. The datapoint also contains a reasoning
step, where the model reasons about which tools to use to fulfil the user request and how to fill in the input
parameters of the tools. This is followed by tool calls and tool outputs, which can be concurrent or sequential.
The datapoint concludes with a model response that includes citations to the tool outputs.
Data collection. Annotation is performed by internal annotators specifically trained in ReAct-style data.
All annotated data used for SFT is reviewed multiple times by different annotators to ensure correctness and
9

quality. For preference data, we use a majority vote of at least 3 annotators to collect preference judgments.
Synthetic data. We also generate synthetic training data containing whole trajectories of reasoning and
tool calls. We verify the quality of the trajectories using internal LLMs-as-a-judge.
3.3.3

Multilingual

The ability to communicate in and understand multiple languages is a fundamental component of enterprise
LLMs. Command A is designed to handle a wide array of languages, ensuring that information can be
accessed and shared seamlessly across different linguistic communities. By incorporating solid multilingual
capabilities in 23 languages, Command A enables businesses and individuals to reach a broader audience,
fostering inclusivity and accessibility. Moreover, the multilingual aspect of Command A facilitates better
understanding and collaboration among international teams, driving innovation and efficiency.
3.3.3.1

Data Mixture

We focus our data mixture on 23 languages: English, French, Spanish, Italian, German, Portuguese, Japanese,
Korean, Arabic, Chinese, Russian, Polish, Turkish, Vietnamese, Dutch, Czech, Indonesian, Ukrainian, Romanian, Greek, Hindi, Hebrew, and Persian. This ensures coverage to expand state-of-the-art language modelling
capabilities to approximately half of the world’s population (Aryabumi et al., 2024; Üstün et al., 2024). Our
multilingual data mixture spans a diverse set of domains and tasks, covering machine translation, multilingual safety, multilingual reasoning, multilingual robust controllability, multilingual RAG, multilingual agents,
etc; ensuring that Command A possesses strong generalisation capabilities across languages. The datasets
are collected through various means including human annotation, multilingual data arbitrage (Odumakinde
et al., 2024; Dang et al., 2024), templated public datasets, or machine translation. Our data mixture is
specifically tailored to handle multilingual learning through SFT and offline preference tuning.
3.3.3.2

Multilingual Data Annotation

Multilingual data annotation is performed by internal and external multilingual annotators who are expertly
trained for annotation within various tasks. It can be divided into two distinct processes, i.e., regionallyrelevant data annotation and complex multilingual task annotation, which cover use cases for both SFT
and preference tuning. For complex tasks such as domain-specific RAG, long-context reasoning, or agentic
tool-use tasks, we conduct human annotation using two different approaches: 1) LLM-generated response
with human post-editing; and 2) manually annotated human data. The prior helps us scale the quantity of
data, while the latter helps develop high-quality multilingual data for tackling complex tasks. We develop
a customised in-house data annotation platform that can support both of these use cases. The high-quality
data generated from human annotations also helps to further improve the quality of the machine-generated
responses providing a positive feedback loop within the annotation process.
Multilingual Best-of-N. To further improve the multilingual quality of Command A, we conduct iterative
synthetic data collection through multilingual best-of-N (Stiennon et al., 2020; Eisenstein et al., 2024). Using
a collection of high-quality prompts, we collect responses from all expert models and score them using our
internal reward models and select the best response to be used in our iterative training. This approach is very
similar to multilingual arbitrage where the model is trained on responses from diverse teacher models. Using
this approach, we observe from human evaluation that LLMs can produce responses that are comparable or
even better than the human-written gold label provided in many multilingual datasets.
3.3.3.3

Training

The multilingual expert model is trained via both SFT and Preference Tuning (full details in Appendix B.2).
We find that training several models with the same configuration (but a different random seed) and uniformly
merging them gives a slight performance boost for the expert at the SFT stage, but does not help at the
preference tuning stage.

10

3.3.4

Code

Generating and understanding code is a fundamental requirement for any enterprise LLM. We invest in
the code capabilities of Command A to assist the software development cycle and improve user coding
experience. Command A’s success in code-oriented tasks is also a precise measurement of capability in
instruction-following, pragmatic inference in interpreting prompts, and procedural reasoning. Our models
excel in challenging business environments, including understanding and translating legacy programs in
COBOL, and using SQL to interface with relational databases.
3.3.4.1

Data

Data Mixture. Our data mix focuses on 8 priority programming languages (Python, Java, C++, Rust,
Go, JavaScript, TypeScript, COBOL) and 5 dialects of SQL (SQLite, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Microsoft TSQL, Oracle PL/SQL). Across these languages, we target a wide range of tasks including code generation
(i.e., NL-to-code), code translation, and code optimisation. Within these tasks, we include diverse domains
such as interview-style questions; repository-level queries; and enterprise-specific demands (including highdimensional arrays, complex debugging, data processing, and visualisation).
Prompts and completions are sourced from annotation campaigns and synthetic generation pipelines. We
enrich prompt-completion pairs with additional information including execution feedback, explanations, paraphrases, stack traces, database context (Chang & Fosler-Lussier, 2023), diff patch formats, and unit-testing
requirements. We prioritize candidate data with positive execution-based validation to filter erroneous or
unverifiable code. This includes passing gold-standard unit tests or correct and error-free execution within
a database. We use a multi-language code execution sandbox to evaluate code correctness in an isolated
environment similar to Guo et al. (2024) and Team et al. (2025).
During pretraining, we perform execution-based code data enrichment. We isolate self-contained functions
and files and add print statements of some variables and generate synthetically valid input parameters. The
resulting code is executed in a sandbox and the output is appended to the enriched source code, adding several
billion pretraining tokens. There is the added benefit that a subset of code repositories can be formatted as
a very long document where files are linearised following a graph traversal defined by import links.
In the RL stage, we jointly optimise for code correctness and annotated preferences between code completions. This approach enhances both the functional accuracy of generated code and reduces edit times of
technically correct but suboptimal or dispreferred generations. We quantify performance using the proportion of unit tests passed in our code execution sandbox, where a reward of 1.0 indicates 100% test success
and 0.2 represents 20% test success. When no valid code block is detected, we assign a reward of −1.0 to
explicitly penalize non-code output. We use synthetic unit-test generation ensuring all code completions have
a minimum of 4 tests per sample. Our synthetic test generation pipeline is similar to Zeng et al. (2025) with
more robust unittest tests over assert statements. The preferred SQL completions are canonicalised using
static query analysis. Beyond verifiable metrics, we incorporate DPO-style preference pairs (Rafailov et al.,
2024) to optimise for code style conventions, documentation structure, and formatting consistency.
Synthetic Data. We experiment with synthetic data pipelines for post-training data enrichment. As a
result, a high proportion of our data are verified synthetic examples in many coding languages. For synthetic
generation sources, we exploit our highest performing models for code, and generalist models for explanations
and reasoning. We experiment with both novel data synthesis and conditional synthetic data augmentation.
Our novel data synthesis efforts include generating examples taking inspiration from concepts, similar to
StarCoder (Wei et al., 2024), and sampling pretraining programming queries. We explore pipelines where
our synthesis is Python-only followed by translating code and unit tests into additional languages, or direct
generation into any programming language. While the former is useful for generating parallel corpora and
targeting Python benchmarks, the latter pipeline proves valuable for problems using absent or uncommon
features of Python (e.g., multithreading or memory management for C++). We use our execution sandbox to
verify all synthetic completions — ensuring that any synthetic example teaches a novel skill via verified code.
This approach to data synthesis only improves performance for small models (i.e., data-based distillation from
larger models). Novel synthesis methods yield negligible improvement for larger models, instead requiring
11

human annotation and synthetic data augmentation to advance our most capable coding experts.
We rely on synthetic data augmentation to diversify the style, syntax, and complexity of our code data. Our
data augmentation pipeline includes prompt paraphrasing, injecting stricter requirements into prompts for
more precise instruction following, and complexifying prompts similar to Magicoder (Wei et al., 2023). In
verifiable scenarios, we use execution feedback to build data for code repair or translation, where iterative
feedback provides guidance until the repaired code passes all tests. In a similar scenario for SQL, a repaired
or translated SQL is adequate when it returns an equivalent answer from a target language database. This
offline pipeline can generate prompt-completion pairs, but we also cast this iterative process into multi-turn
data to simulate conversational code repair.
We also use synthetic augmentation to improve non-verifiable aspects of our data. This includes code explanations, markdown style formatting, technical precision, and global completion structure. We use reward
modelling and majority voting to score these non-verifiable code completions. We also elicit feedback from
human annotators to guide our data synthesis pipeline towards developer preferences for code style, structure, and explanations. This regularises against overfitting to the preferred style of any LLM judge, and our
generations’ target style and structural features are actually preferred by human raters.
3.3.4.2

Training

The code expert is trained in three stages (hyperparameters and full details in Appendix B.3):
Stage 1 is large-scale supervised learning, with the code data mixture described above. This stage includes
data for all relevant tasks to optimise a high level of coding capability. To mitigate variance in initialisation,
learning trajectory, and performance on small evaluation datasets we use linear merging over the top k
seeds (Izmailov et al., 2018; Team et al., 2024; Yadav et al., 2024; Aakanksha et al., 2024; Khalifa et al.,
2025) where k is typically 2 or 3. We observe that this merged model is a strictly superior initialisation for
continued training with additional fine-tuning or RL.
Stage 2 is supervised learning on only high-quality data. From the first stage fine-tuning, we further
strengthen our code expert with additional fine-tuning on our “highest-quality” code generation datasets.
We define “high-quality” as verifiable human or synthetic data from our best experts, or data rated highly by
internal reward models. As before, we train multiple candidate models and merge across random seeds to produce the final SFT code expert. This secondary fine-tuning stage increased our key benchmark performance
with negligible regression in tasks only present in stage 1 training (e.g., SQL query optimisation).
Stage 3 is RL over scored or preference-pair data. We train the expert with the offline Contrastive Policy
Gradient algorithm (§3.2.2), to train with execution feedback and DPO-style preference pairs as described
above. To ensure stable RL, we introduce three regularisation schemas. First, we repeat the Stage 2 highquality supervised learning and merging process on any non-code expert model (e.g., a merge of multiple
experts). CoPG on a merged checkpoint was strictly more stable and yielded better results than RL on top
of an individual SFT/merge. Second, we introduce a hybrid cross-entropy loss function on top of CoPG to
sample steps of typical supervised learning from the same Stage 2 data mix. Third, we use WARP-style
merging (Ramé et al., 2024) to combine the final model trained with RL to the parent checkpoint. This
hybrid approach ensures stable reinforcement learning optimisation to improve both our code experts for
user preference, and improving our performance on intrinsic code generation capabilities.
3.3.5

Math and Reasoning

Sophisticated reasoning abilities are a necessary competency area for generalisation in LLMs (Guo et al.,
2025; Team et al., 2025; Toshniwal et al., 2024). We focus primarily on core mathematical reasoning as it
is both intrinsically useful (e.g., in financial use cases) and yields out-of-distribution improvements in other
knowledge-intensive tasks such as coding and data manipulation (Islam et al., 2023; Shao et al., 2024).

12

3.3.5.1

Data

We find that training on synthetic data outperforms human-written data, so our approach is heavily weighted
towards the use of synthetic examples. We use carefully-curated seed prompts for few-shot generation of
novel mathematical problems, and LLM-as-judge techniques to determine the correctness of novel problemsolution pairs. We find that the choices of prompt seeds, correctness validation, and final dataset filtering
have a substantial impact on the quality of our reasoning-expert models.
3.3.5.2

Training

Supervised Fine-Tuning. For SFT, we leverage synthetic mathematical reasoning datasets that have
undergone extensive LLM-driven filtering for solution correctness. We find, similar to Toshniwal et al.
(2024), that strict correctness cut-offs are not needed for optimal SFT performance.
Preference Tuning. We employ preference tuning following SFT across one of two datasets, dependent on
the downstream model training stages: The first dataset is comprised of human-rated preferences on paired
completions to reasoning prompts. The second, fully-synthetic dataset comprises correct and incorrect paired
solutions to reasoning prompts. We find that, unlike in SFT, solution correctness is of critical importance
in preference training (e.g., so that preferences are not accidentally inverted), and in the absence of humanwritten ratings, we use a mixture of programmatic and model-driven verifiers to evaluate solution correctness.
Merging. We find that using candidate models exhibiting maximal reasoning performance is sometimes
detrimental to the cross-capability merge under particular merging strategies. We observe that optimal
merged performance is achieved when first merging various reasoning-tuned and instruction-tuned expert
models, and this yields a sufficiently high-signal proxy for selecting Pareto-optimal candidates to merge with
a broader mix of models downstream. We employ this selection for our final set of candidate models, with
the exact selection criteria along the Pareto frontier being dependent on downstream merging strategies.
Training hyperparameters for SFT and preference tuning are in Appendix B.4.
3.3.6

Long Context

Data. Given the complexity of human annotation for long-context tasks, we synthetically generate longcontext examples. We sample from our long-context pretraining dataset and prompt Command R+ Refresh
to generate question-answer pairs based on randomly selected fragments within 8,192 tokens (Xiong et al.,
2024). To ensure high-quality, we use our reward model to select the best generation from a pool of candidates.
The selected question-answer pairs are then concatenated to the original samples to construct our synthetic
data.
Training. We perform one stage of SFT on top of the pretrained model, following a similar approach to our
cooldown phase. We use an interleaved training regime with datasets of 16k and 256k sequence lengths at a
3:1 interleaving ratio. Hyperparameters are in Appendix B.5.
3.3.7

Safety

AI Safety focuses on quantifying and mitigating harms that can occur from using a given AI model, either
to the end user, to the company deploying it, or to society at large. Harms can arise from a single piece of
generated content (e.g. hate speech). They can also be distribution-based, which is the case when the model
is biased towards certain groups. This section focuses on model safety at the instance level, that is, how we
decrease the risks stemming from single generative instances of a given model. We include a distribution-based
evaluation (§4.6) and consider it to be a form of robustness (Seshadri & Goldfarb-Tarrant, 2025).
Cohere’s core Safety behaviour. We focus on practical safety considerations, driven both by model
capabilities and deployment use cases. We consider two main settings in which our models can be deployed:
• The Default setting, in which the model is used entirely outside of Cohere (e.g. open weights release).
In this scenario, we lack control of the preamble structure and deployment context. We ensure that
the model behaves according to Cohere’s Core Safety behaviour in this general setting.
• The Enterprise setting, in which the model is deployed by Cohere to one of our enterprise partners.
13

Here the safety behaviour of the model is controllable by the preamble, to meet different enterprise
needs exceeding Core Safety behaviour. The controllable behaviours are called "Safety modes". There
are currently two safety modes; contextual, and strict.
Our Core Safety behaviour focuses of five key areas where we want to prevent the purposeful propagation of
harmful content online: Violence and hate, Misinformation, Self-harm, Child Sexual Exploitation and Abuse
(CSEA) and Sexual content. In the default setting, we expect the model to be able to answer requests for
information on those topics (covering factual elements such as statistics, educational content); however it
should not generate any unsafe content, that is, supporting, encouraging or otherwise enabling harm. In the
enterprise setting, the contextual mode is similar, but allows sexual content. The model behaviour can be
made stricter by using the strict mode, which prevents the model from covering any topic related to our key
focus areas, as well as from generating profanity.
3.3.7.1

Data

Pretraining. We perform two stages of safety-related pretraining filtering: first, we remove known domains
for CSEA and sexual content, and second, we use a classifier to remove generally low quality content, including
sexual content.
Post-training. In post-training, we use both SFT and preference datasets, with a combination of manual and
automated labels. Safety annotation is performed by internal annotators and specialist external vendors, who
are specifically trained for our Safety concepts and tasks. Our close interaction with internal Safety annotators
provides additional benefits due to the potentially distressing nature of the data. We increase the diversity
of our post-training data via both LLM ‘personas’ and LLM-based reformulations. We generate completions
corresponding to different styles, identities and belief systems via diverse LLM personas. Additionally, we
use our LLM to reformulate content (preserving overall semantics but changing form), thus increasing data
diversity and making sure that the preferred completions are consistent with our refusal policy (in particular,
the model should not apologise for refusing to generate unsafe content, which creates a common dataset
artifact (Chen & Goldfarb-Tarrant, 2025)).
Balancing safety and refusal behaviour. Ensuring that the model cannot produce harmful content
means that a lot of training data shows refusal as the preferred behaviour. It is crucial to balance such data
points with authorised user requests and compliant completions to prevent the model from over-relying on
refusal – as previously referred to in the literature as the balance between harmlessness and helpfulness (Bai
et al., 2022). The balancing prompts can be split into two sets: user requests which are information requests
on safety topics, and benign user requests with similar vocabu