# FULL TEXT — SWE-smith: Scaling Data for Software Engineering Agents

https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.21798v2

\bugs: Scaling Data for Software Engineering Agents 

 1 Introduction 
 
 2 \bugs : Software Task Generation at Scale 
 
 2.1 Collection 
 2.2 Features 

 3 Experiments 
 
 4 Results 
 
 4.1 Ablations of \bugs 
 4.2 Analysis of Agent Behavior 

 5 Related Work 
 6 Discussion 
 
 A Infrastructure 
 
 A.1 \bugs Task Instance 
 A.2 Repository Selection 
 A.3 Validation, Evaluation Harnesses 

 B Bug Generation Strategies 
 
 B.1 Generating with an LM 
 B.2 Procedural Modification 
 B.3 Combine Bug Patches 
 B.4 Pull Request Mirroring 

 C Dataset Statistics 
 
 C.1 Bug Generation Statistics 
 C.2 Case Study: SWE-bench \bugs 

 D Issue Generation 
 E Difficulty Rating 
 
 F Experiments 
 
 F.1 Training Details 
 F.2 Evaluation Datasets 
 F.3 Trajectory Dataset Breakdown 
 F.4 Training Analyses 
 
 F.5 Agent Behavioral Studies 
 
 F.5.1 Turn counts and cost 
 F.5.2 Analysis of agent action space 
 F.5.3 Failure mode analysis 
 F.5.4 Mitigating repetitive actions 

 G Miscellaneous 

 \bugs : Scaling Data for Software Engineering Agents 

John Yang 1 ,
Kilian Lieret 2 ,
Carlos E. Jimenez 2 ,
Alexander Wettig 2 ,
Kabir Khandpur 3 ,
 \And 
Yanzhe Zhang 1 ,
Binyuan Hui 4 ,
Ofir Press 2 ,
Ludwig Schmidt 1 ,
Diyi Yang 1 
 \And 1 Stanford University  2 Princeton University  3 Indepedent  4 Alibaba Qwen

 Abstract 
 Despite recent progress in Language Models (LMs) for software engineering, collecting training data remains a significant pain point.
Existing datasets are small, with at most 1 , 000 1 000 1{,}000 1 , 000 s of training instances from 11 11 11 11 or fewer GitHub repositories.
The procedures to curate such datasets are often complex, necessitating hundreds of hours of human labor; companion execution environments also take up several terabytes of storage, severely limiting their scalability and usability.
To address this pain point, we introduce SWE-smith, a novel pipeline for generating software engineering training data at scale.
Given any Python codebase, \bugs constructs a corresponding execution environment, then automatically synthesizes 100 100 100 100 s to 1 , 000 1 000 1{,}000 1 , 000 s of task instances that break existing test(s) in the codebase.
Using \bugs , we create a dataset of 50 50 50 50 k instances sourced from 128 128 128 128 GitHub repositories, an order of magnitude larger than all previous works.
We train SWE-agent-LM-32B , achieving 40.2 40.2 40.2 40.2 % Pass@1 resolve rate on the SWE-bench Verified benchmark, state of the art among open source models.
We open source \bugs (collection procedure, task instances, trajectories, models) to lower the barrier of entry for research in LM systems for automated software engineering.
All assets available at https://swesmith.com . 

 1 Introduction 

 Figure 1: 
 Scaling task instances (left) and performance (right) for SWE-agent’s with \bugs .
Using \bugs , we can create 100 100 100 100 s to 1000 1000 1000 1000 s of instances for any Python codebase, enabling us to train SWE-agent-LM-32B which achieves 40.2 40.2 40.2 40.2 % on SWE-bench Verified.

 Language Model (LM) agents, such as SWE-agent  (Yang et al., 2024a ) or OpenHands  (Wang et al., 2024 ) ,
have made remarkable progress towards automating software engineering (SE) tasks, as tracked by benchmarks such as SWE-bench  (Jimenez et al., 2024b ) .
However, the most effective agents still rely on proprietary LMs, as building open source LMs for SE remains bottlenecked by the lack of large-scale, high-quality training data.
To ensure that open research remains relevant in this field, it is critical to develop infrastructure for collecting software engineering training data at scale. 

 The current open-source ecosystem offers two kinds of data sources to train LMs on SE tasks.
One simple approach is to crawl pull requests (PRs) and issues from GitHub repositories.
However, without execution environments or tests, these instances offer no reliable way of validating generated solutions,
and LMs are limited to learning from the surface form of code  (Xie et al., 2025a ) or via rewards based on superficial string similarity  (Wei et al., 2025 ) . 

 In contrast, SWE-bench provides reliable validation by running unit tests against proposed solutions.
Another line of work has simply extended the SWE-bench collection strategy to a new set of repositories for training purposes (Pan et al., 2024 ) .
This produces flexible environments for training and distilling LM agents, since we can generate agent trajectories and filter them based on the unit test results.
However, the scalability of this approach is severely limited by the challenges associated with SWE-bench’s collection strategy.
SWE-bench’s filtering process leaves only a small number of PRs that not only resolve a Github issue, but also make meaningful changes to unit tests.
Also, setting up execution environments for each instance requires a substantial amount of human intervention. 

 In this paper, we introduce the \bugs toolkit, which marries the flexible execution environments of SWE-bench with scalable instance collection (Figure  1 ).
 \bugs features several techniques to automatically synthesize bugs in existing GitHub repositories,
such as (1) generating errant rewrites of functions with an LM, (2) procedurally modifying the abstract syntax tree (AST) of functions, (3) undoing PRs, and (4) combining bugs.
Our key insight is that execution-based validation can not only validate proposed solutions,
but also identify bug candidates which cause substantial software regression (i.e., break tests). 

 Figure 2: 
 \bugs creates training data for software engineering agents by crafting bugs into real codebases.
Given a codebase, we employ several strategies to create task instances that break existing tests.
Using \bugs , we create 50 50 50 50 k+ task instances with execution environments from 128 128 128 128 real world repositories.

 In a nutshell, \bugs puts forth the following task creation workflow, as shown in Figure  2 .
Given a codebase, we automatically set up a corresponding environment using SWE-agent  (Yang et al., 2024a ) .
Within this environment, we then use the aforementioned techniques to synthesize 100 100 100 100 s to 1 , 000 1 000 1,000 1 , 000 s of task instances.
Finally, we craft realistic issue descriptions automatically with LMs.
 \bugs ’s design significantly reduces the amount of human labor and storage required for constructing execution environments.
Using \bugs , we create a dataset of 50 50 50 50 k task instances across 128 128 128 128 real-world GitHub repositories. 

 Using the \bugs dataset, we achieve a new open-weight state of the art result on SWE-bench verified.
Using the SWE-smith task instances, we generate 5 , 016 5 016 5{,}016 5 , 016 expert trajectories with Claude 3.7 Sonnet and fine-tune Qwen 2.5 Coder Instruct 32 32 32 32 B.
The resulting LM, SWE-agent-LM-32B , achieves 40.2 % percent 40.2 40.2\% 40.2 % (+ 33.4 33.4 33.4 33.4 %) on SWE-bench Verified in a single attempt, without inference-time scaling.
This sets a new state of the art for open-weight models. 

 The scale and diversity of the \bugs dataset enables us to begin establishing truths and investigate interesting phenomena about developing SWE-agents.
Training on more instances, bug types, and repositories helps.
LM generated issue text approximates real ones effectively.
Using \bugs , we find that it’s possible to optimize LMs to perform well for specific repositories while only suffering minor generalization loss. 

 We release \bugs as an open-source toolkit — including instances, environments, and trajectories — to catalyze the development of stronger open-source LM agents. 

 2 \bugs : Software Task Generation at Scale 
 
 The core principle of \bugs ’s collection strategy is to define an execution environment first, and then synthesize task instances within the environment.
Conceptually, this is a simple inversion of SWE-bench’s approach, which instead prioritizes identifying task instances, and then attempts to build an environment for each.
In this section, we describe the procedure in detail and show how, in practice, \bugs scales significantly better in terms of repositories, task instances, and storage. 

 2.1 Collection 
 
 Building execution environments for repositories with passing tests. 
Given a repository, we run SWE-agent  (Yang et al., 2024a ) on the latest commit for at most 100 100 100 100 steps, instructing it to install the codebase and run the test suite.
We then manually verify the installation and testing instructions, check if more than 80 80 80 80 % of existing tests pass, and finally create a Docker image for the repository.
We target repositories for the 5 , 000 5 000 5,000 5 , 000 most downloaded packages listed in the Python Package Index (PyPI) as of November 18, 2024, sort the PyPI packages by GitHub stars, and then remove any PyPI package with less than 1 , 000 1 000 1,000 1 , 000 stars, as well as all 12 12 12 12 SWE-bench test repositories from consideration.
More in § A.2 . 

 Creating task instance candidates. 
Per repository, we employ four different strategies to create candidates.
As shown in Figure  2 , each strategy takes in a repository as input, then produces task instance candidates represented as .diff files.
Extensive details in § B . 

 • 
 
 LM Generation : Per repository, we identify all programmatic entities (functions, classes), then take two approaches: (1) provide an LM with the function and prompt it to introduce errant modifications (henceforth referred to as “LM Modify”), and (2) given only the function header and docstring, ask the LM to rewrite it (“LM Rewrite”).
More in § B.1 . 

 • 
 
 Procedural Modification : Per function, we acquire an abstract syntax tree (AST) representation of the code, then randomly perform one or more transformations (e.g., remove a conditional/loop, change an operator, + 11 11 11 11 more. See Table  8 ).
More in § B.2 . 

 • 
 
 Combine Bugs : LM generation and Procedural Modification task instances exclusively edit one function or class.
To create more complex tasks that require editing multiple portions of the codebase, we devise a “Patch Combination” strategy that creates a task instance by aggregating candidates from the same file(s) or module(s).
More in § B.3 . 

 • 
 
 Invert PRs (or “PR Mirror”): Per repository, we collect all PRs that modify Python files.
Per PR, we attempt to undo its revisions in the current version of the repository.
To achieve this, we provide an LM with the PR’s code changes (a .diff plaintext) and prompt it to rewrite each affected file such that the PR edits are reverted.
Unlike SWE-bench, we do not check out the PR’s base commit, as the install specifications determined in the previous step may not be compatible with older versions of the repo.
More in § B.4 . 

 Execution-based validation of candidates. 
We apply each candidate patch to the corresponding repository, run the test suite, and only keep patches that break one or more existing, passing tests (referred to as Fail-to-Pass or F2P test(s)).
For efficiency purposes, we also limit testing runtime to two minutes; bug candidates that cause test runtimes in excess of this time limit are discarded.
Minor additional details in § A.3 . 

 Generating problem statements. 
The issue text associated with a bug can significantly alter the difficulty and feasibility of the task instance.
Detailed descriptions of “expected” vs. “observed” behavior or bug-reproduction code in issue text heavily affect an agent’s capacity to localize bugs or iterate on proposed solutions.
We explore several techniques covered fully in § D , and ultimately settle on a simple strategy.
Per task instance, we provide an LM with the .diff patch, source code of a random F2P test, and execution output from running the repository’s test suite with the bug patch applied.
We prompt the LM for GitHub issue-style text that includes reproduction code based on the F2P test. 

 What human labor remains? 
The steps requiring manual effort are (1) parsing the correct installation setup procedures from the agent trajectory ( ∼ 7 similar-to absent 7 \sim 7 ∼ 7 min per repository),
and (2) implementing the parser for test outputs ( ∼ 1 similar-to absent 1 \sim 1 ∼ 1 min per repository).
Step two requires very little time because parsers can be reused for repositories with the same testing infrastructure (e.g., pytest ).
 \bugs removes the need for manual efforts to determine installation specifications for multiple versions of a codebase across time, the most costly step of SWE-bench collection.
Creating \bugs took one author ∼ 20 similar-to absent 20 \sim{}20 ∼ 20 h of human labor. 

 2.2 Features 
 
 We apply \bugs to 128 128 128 128 Python repositories, generating a total of 50 50 50 50 k instances.
Table  1 captures the key statistics.
On average, we generate 381 381 381 381 task instances per repository, with as many as 2277 2277 2277 2277 for pandas-dev/pandas .
We summarize the distribution of task instances per repository in Figure  1 , where repositories are grouped into one of six general categories.
 \bugs took $ 1360 1360 1360 1360 to create ($ 1000 1000 1000 1000 to generate bugs, $ 160 160 160 160 for automatic repository installation with SWE-agent, $ 200 200 200 200 to generate issues for 10 10 10 10 K bugs).
Generating an issue costs 2.54 2.54 2.54 2.54 ¢ on average.
More dataset analyses in § C . 

 \captionof 
 figure
Distribution of instances per repo for 128 128 128 128 repo’s grouped into 6 6 6 6 categories. 

 Bug Type 
 Yield % 
 # Insts 
 Cost 
 F2P 
 Lines 

 Combine 
 
 96.9 96.9 96.9 96.9 % 
 10 , 092 10 092 10,092 10 , 092 
 
 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 ¢ 
 15 15 15 15 
 11 11 11 11 

 LM Modify 
 
 56.0 56.0 56.0 56.0 % 
 17 , 887 17 887 17,887 17 , 887 
 
 0.38 0.38 0.38 0.38 ¢ 
 4 4 4 4 
 3 3 3 3 

 LM Rewrite 
 
 35.0 35.0 35.0 35.0 % 
 4 , 173 4 173 4,173 4 , 173 
 
 3.93 3.93 3.93 3.93 ¢ 
 4 4 4 4 
 24 24 24 24 

 PR Mirror 
 
 33.8 33.8 33.8 33.8 % 
 2 , 344 2 344 2,344 2 , 344 
 
 5.53 5.53 5.53 5.53 ¢ 
 3 3 3 3 
 14 14 14 14 

 Procedural 
 
 40.2 40.2 40.2 40.2 % 
 15 , 641 15 641 15,641 15 , 641 
 
 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 ¢ 
 7 7 7 7 
 5 5 5 5 

 Total 
 50.1 
 50,137 
 2.32¢ 
 6 
 5 

 Table 1: 
Summary of \bugs statistics.
“Yield %” is the % of candidates generated by a strategy that break 1 + limit-from 1 1+ 1 + tests.
“Cost” is the average cost to generate one candidate.
“F2P” (Fail to Pass tests), “Lines [Edited]” are median values.

 Bug generation strategies vary in cost and yield rate.
Of methods relying on LMs, PR Mirrors are more expensive because the task entails rewriting entire files, as opposed to individual functions for LM Modify and LM Rewrite.
Yield rates are limited by either lack of test coverage for the change or because the bug candidate did not actually introduce relevant issues.
For example, for LM Rewrite, the LM is asked to re-implement the function; it is not explicitly asked for bugs.
When requested outright (LM Modify), the yield is higher. 

 Dataset 
 # Tasks 
 # Repos 
 Exec? 
 Source 
 Env. Size 

 R2E   (Jain et al., 2024 ) 

 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 k 
 137 137 137 137 
 
 Synth 
 
 270 270 270 270 GBs 

 R2E-gym (Subset)   (Jain et al., 2025 ) 

 4.6 4.6 4.6 4.6 k 
 10 10 10 10 
 
 Synth 
 
 4 4 4 4 TBs 

 SWE-bench-extra   (Badertdinov et al., 2024 ) 

 6.38 6.38 6.38 6.38 k 
 
 2 2 2 2 k 
 
 Real 
 - 

 SWE-bench-train   (Jimenez et al., 2024b ) 

 19 19 19 19 k 
 37 37 37 37 
 
 Real 
 - 

 SWE-fixer   (Xie et al., 2025a ) 

 115 115 115 115 k 
 856 856 856 856 
 
 Real 
 - 

 SWE-gym   (Pan et al., 2024 ) 

 2.4 2.4 2.4 2.4 k 
 11 11 11 11 
 
 Real 
 
 6 6 6 6 TBs 

 \bugs 
 
 50 50 50 50 k 
 128 128 128 128 
 
 Both 
 
 295 295 295 295 GBs 

 Table 2: 
Comparison of open source training datasets for software engineering tasks.
Relative to existing datasets, \bugs has multiple times the number of task instances, repositories, and environments at a fraction of prior storage costs.
SWE-fixer and SWE-bench-train task instances do not have execution environments, so “Env. Size” is blank.

 How difficult are \bugs task instances? 
To determine whether task instances produced by \bugs are realistic and challenging, we train a Qwen 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 32 32 32 32 B model on 1 , 699 1 699 1{,}699 1 , 699 human-annotated (task, label) pairs from  Chowdhury et al. ( 2024 ) to rate tasks as ( easy , medium , hard ) by training.
To quantify difficulty, each difficulty label corresponds to values of 1 1 1 1 / 5 5 5 5 / 9 9 9 9 .
The model achieves 75.3 75.3 75.3 75.3 % test accuracy.
We then rate difficulty of task instances from both \bugs and prior SWE-bench style datasets  (Chowdhury et al., 2024 ; Jimenez et al., 2024b ; Pan et al., 2024 ; Yang et al., 2024b ) .
 \bugs task instances span a broad range of difficulties, similar to SWE-bench and SWE-gym.
The average difficulty score for \bugs ( 5.27 5.27 5.27 5.27 – 5.72 5.72 5.72 5.72 across bug generation strategies) is comparable to SWE-bench ( 5.01 5.01 5.01 5.01 ) and SWE-gym ( 5.62 5.62 5.62 5.62 ). This suggests SWE-smith enables realistic and appropriately challenging evaluation.
We discuss why bug strategies yield different levels of difficulty and visualize difficulty per dataset in § E . 

 Scaling execution environments. 
Unlike SWE-bench which creates a Docker image per task instance, \bugs leverages a simpler design where tasks from the same repository share the same environment, reducing storage overhead significantly, as shown in Table  2 .
This approach not only makes scaling task instances more affordable, but also renders \bugs more accessible and maintainable than existing datasets.
We estimate that creating a similar quantity of task instances ( 50 50 50 50 k) using SWE-bench would require 50 50 50 50 to 150 150 150 150 TBs of storage for environments, a 500 500 500 500 x difference.
Extended discussion in § C.1 . 

 3 Experiments 
 
 To explore the utility of \bugs for training software engineering agents, we use rejection sampling fine-tuning  (Yuan et al., 2023 ) as the primary procedure for improving a base LM with \bugs .
Our experiment workflow is as follows.
First, we curate a subset of \bugs task instances.
Next, we run an agent system with an expert model on this subset.
At this step, the trajectory corresponding to each run is recorded.
Then, we fine-tune the base (or “student”) model on the trajectories corresponding to resolved instances.
Finally, we evaluate the agent system run with the student model on a separate, test split. 

 Models. For expert models, we use claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219   (Anthropic, 2025 ) .
For fair comparisons with prior works  (Pan et al., 2024 ) , we also use claude-3-5-sonnet-20240620 and gpt-4o-2024-08-06 .
We use the Qwen-2.5-Coder-Instruct   (Hui et al., 2024 ) 7 7 7 7 B and 32 32 32 32 B series as the base models.
Training and hyperparameter details are in § F.1 . 

 Agent system. We use SWE-agent  (Yang et al., 2024a ) , an agent system for solving GitHub issues.
SWE-agent provides a base LM with an Agent Computer Interface (ACI) that enables more effective interactions with a codebase.
At each turn, SWE-agent prompts an LM to generate a ReAct  (Yao et al., 2023b ) style (thought, action) pair, where the action either edits a file or executes a shell command.
We choose SWE-agent because, at the time of writing, SWE-agent with Claude 3.7 Sonnet is the top open source solution on SWE-bench.
When generating trajectories with expert models, we run SWE-agent for at most 75 75 75 75 steps and $ 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 cost limit.
For inference of student models, we impose the same 75 75 75 75 step maximum and fix temperature at 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 .
Full configuration details are in § F.1 . 

 Evaluation metrics. 
We evaluate on the SWE-bench Lite and Verified  (Chowdhury et al., 2024 ) subsets.
SWE-bench evaluates AI systems on their ability to solve software issues from 12 12 12 12 real world GitHub repositories.
The Lite split is a subset of 300 300 300 300 instances, curated to be an easier evaluation set that’s less costly to run.
The Verified split is a human-curated subset of 500 500 500 500 instances, selected for clearer problem statements and more reliable evaluation.
To assess generalization beyond Python, we also evaluate on SWE-bench Multilingual, a new dataset introduced in this paper.
SWE-Bench Multilingual consists of 300 300 300 300 task instances that cover 9 9 9 9 additional programming languages.
See § F.2 for more details.
We report the % resolved metric, the proportion of successfully resolved instances. 

 4 Results 
 
 Table  3 compares the performance of Qwen 2.5 Coder Instruct models (7B and 32B), fine-tuned on 5 , 016 5 016 5{,}016 5 , 016 \bugs trajectories.
We refer to them as SWE-agent-LM-7B and SWE-agent-LM-32B ; the latter achieves state-of-the-art performance. 

 Model 
 System 
 Train Size 
 Lite 
 Verified 

 Closed Weight Models 

 GPT-4o  (OpenAI, 2024a ) 
 
 Agentless 
 - 
 32.0 32.0 32.0 32.0 
 38.8 38.8 38.8 38.8 

 OpenHands 
 - 
 22.0 22.0 22.0 22.0 
 - 

 SWE-agent 
 - 
 18.3 18.3 18.3 18.3 
 23.0 23.0 23.0 23.0 

 Claude 3.5 Sonnet  (Anthropic, 2024 ) 
 
 Agentless 
 - 
 40.7 40.7 40.7 40.7 
 50.8 50.8 50.8 50.8 

 AutoCodeRover 
 - 
 - 
 46.2 46.2 46.2 46.2 

 OpenHands 
 - 
 41.7 41.7 41.7 41.7 
 53.0 53.0 53.0 53.0 

 SWE-agent 
 - 
 23.0 23.0 23.0 23.0 
 33.6 33.6 33.6 33.6 

 Claude 3.7 Sonnet  (Anthropic, 2025 ) 
 
 SWE-agent 
 - 
 48.0 
 58.2 

 Llama3-SWE-RL-70B  (Wei et al., 2025 ) 
 
 Agentless 
 11M 
 - 
 41.0 41.0 41.0 41.0 

 Open Weight Models 

 Lingma-SWE-GPT-72B  (Ma et al., 2024 ) 
 
 SWE-SynInfer 
 - 
 - 
 28.8 28.8 28.8 28.8 

 Qwen3-235B-A22B  (Qwen et al., 2025 ) 
 
 OpenHands 
 - 
 - 
 34.4 34.4 34.4 34.4 

 R2E-Gym-32B  (Jain et al., 2025 ) 
 
 OpenHands 
 
 3.3 3.3 3.3 3.3 k 
 - 
 34.4 34.4 34.4 34.4 

 SWE-fixer-72B  (Xie et al., 2025a ) 
 
 SWE-Fixer 
 
 110 110 110 110 k 
 24.7 24.7 24.7 24.7 
 32.8 32.8 32.8 32.8 

 SWE-gym-32B  (Pan et al., 2024 ) 
 
 OpenHands 
 491 491 491 491 
 15.3 15.3 15.3 15.3 
 20.6 20.6 20.6 20.6 

 SWE-agent-LM-7B 
 SWE-agent 
 
 2 2 2 2 k 
 11.7 11.7 11.7 11.7 
 15.2 15.2 15.2 15.2 

 SWE-agent-LM-32B 
 SWE-agent 
 
 5 5 5 5 k 
 30.7 
 40.2 

 Table 3: 
Resolve rates for existing solutions on SWE-bench Lite and Verified, collected from   Jimenez et al. ( 2024a ) , compared to models fine-tuned on \bugs .
All performance numbers are pass@ 1 1 1 1 .
We do not compare against systems that use verifiers or multiple attempts at test time.

 The final dataset of 5 , 016 5 016 5{,}016 5 , 016 training points was curated as follows.
We start by collecting a large pool of expert trajectories.
First, we carried out each of the ablations in Section  4.1 , giving us an initial set of 5 , 105 5 105 5{,}105 5 , 105 trajectories.
Next, based on our observation that PR Mirror and LM Rewrite task instances yield the most effective expert trajectories (discussed below), we run the expert model on all task instances of these types, bumping up the total number to 6 , 457 6 457 6{,}457 6 , 457 task instances.
Ultimately, we attempt to generate expert trajectories for 8 , 686 8 686 8{,}686 8 , 686 unique task instances, or 17.3 17.3 17.3 17.3 % of the \bugs dataset.
Reinforcing the difficulty rating findings from Section  2.2 , we observe that \bugs task instances are non-trivial for the top agent systems today.
The final pool of 6 , 457 6 457 6{,}457 6 , 457 represents a 36 36 36 36 % resolve rate of all 17 , 906 17 906 17{,}906 17 , 906 attempts to solve one of the 8 , 686 8 686 8{,}686 8 , 686 task instances. 

 Next, we perform minor filtering of this collection.
As reported in  Pan et al. ( 2024 ) , we also observe that “easier” trajectories – task instances that are repeatedly solved across multiple runs — degrade model performance.
Therefore, we limit the number of times any \bugs task instance is represented in the training set to 3 3 3 3 trajectories.
This leads to the final 5 , 016 5 016 5{,}016 5 , 016 training set.
More details in § F.3 . 

 Performance improves with more data points. 
Extending similar graphs from   Jain et al. ( 2025 ); Pan et al. ( 2024 ) , Figure  1 shows increasing performance with more trajectories. 

 Comparison at the same training set size. 
To compare with prior works  (Jain et al., 2025 ; Pan et al., 2024 ) , we run expert trajectory generation on 1000 1000 1000 1000 random \bugs task instances with SWE-agent + Claude 3.5 Sonnet ( 800 800 800 800 ) or GPT-4o ( 200 200 200 200 ).
We then fine-tune the 32 32 32 32 B model on 500 500 500 500 successful trajectories, a training set size both works report on.
Our model achieves a 28.2 28.2 28.2 28.2 % resolve rate on SWE-bench Verified, a relative difference of + 8.2 8.2 +8.2 + 8.2 % with Pan et al. ( 2024 ) and + 0.7 0.7 +0.7 + 0.7 % with Jain et al. ( 2025 ) . 

 4.1 Ablations of \bugs 

 We perform several ablations of how \bugs ’s bug and problem statement generation strategies impact the quality of training data.
We use Claude 3.7 Sonnet as the expert for fine-tuning Qwen 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 7 7 7 7 B Coder Instruct, and report the performance on SWE-bench Verified. 

 LM Rewrite and Procedural bugs are comparable to PR mirrors. 
We randomly sample 1000 1000 1000 1000 instances per bug generation strategy (LM Modify, LM Rewrite, Procedural Modifications, PR Mirrors).
Per instance, we generate issue text with an LM and run expert trajectory generation.
We then fine-tune a student model per strategy, capping training points to the minimum number of successful trajectories from any strategy ( 507 507 507 507 ) for fair comparison. 

 Table  5 summarizes the results.
Trajectories generated from PR mirrors are empirically the most effective training data — this is expected, since they are most reflective of SWE-bench.
What’s noteworthy is that trajectories from Procedural Modification and LM Rewrite instances lead to competitive models.
There is a steep drop-off with LM Modify bugs. 

 LM generated issues are comparable to real issues. 
We randomly sample 600 600 600 600 PR Mirror task instances.
We compare LM generated issues with three alternatives — fixed issue templates, the source code + test logs of a random Fail-to-Pass test, and the original issue text associated with the PR.
We again cap training points to the minimum number of successful trajectories ( 259 259 259 259 ) for fairness. 

 As shown in Table  5 , training on task instances with LM generated issues is empirically comparable to using the original issue text.
Using fixed issue templates not only leads to the fewest successful trajectories, but also results in relatively homogeneous problem solving sequences.
The expert trajectories from fixed issue templates have 31 31 31 31 % fewer unique actions compared to LM generated text ( 379 379 379 379 vs. 550 550 550 550 ).
While providing a Fail-to-Pass test case leads to more successful expert trajectories, leaking the evaluation criteria causes the model to skip over writing a reproduction script, which accounts for the performance drop.
Of 500 500 500 500 SWE-bench Verified instances, the student model trained on LM-generated issues attempts to reproduce the bug for 379 379 379 379 of the runs.
The model trained on test-based issues only does so for 127 127 127 127 cases, a 66 66 66 66 % decrease. 

 Strategy 
 # Trajs. 
 % Resolved 

 LM Modify 
 802 802 802 802 
 
 5.7 5.7 5.7 5.7 ( ± 1.5 plus-or-minus 1.5 \pm 1.5 ± 1.5 ) 

 LM Rewrite 
 507 507 507 507 
 
 8.8 8.8 8.8 8.8 ( ± 1.7 plus-or-minus 1.7 \pm 1.7 ± 1.7 ) 

 Procedural 
 745 745 745 745 
 
 8.6 8.6 8.6 8.6 ( ± 1.8 plus-or-minus 1.8 \pm 1.8 ± 1.8 ) 

 PR Mirror 
 557 557 557 557 
 
 9.2 9.2 9.2 9.2 ( ± 1.7 ) \pm 1.7) ± 1.7 ) 

 Table 4: 
Comparison of training on 1000 1000 1000 1000 \bugs instances created with different strategies.

 Issue 
 # Trajs. 
 % Resolved 

 Fixed 
 259 
 
 6.4 6.4 6.4 6.4 ( ± 1.5 plus-or-minus 1.5 \pm 1.5 ± 1.5 ) 

 F2P Test 
 390 
 
 7.3 7.3 7.3 7.3 ( ± 1.9 plus-or-minus 1.9 \pm 1.9 ± 1.9 ) 

 LM 
 328 
 
 7.7 7.7 7.7 7.7 ( ± 1.5 plus-or-minus 1.5 \pm 1.5 ± 1.5 ) 

 Original 
 319 
 
 7.8 7.8 7.8 7.8 ( ± 1.8 plus-or-minus 1.8 \pm 1.8 ± 1.8 ) 

 Table 5: 
Comparing training on 600 600 600 600 PR Mirror instances with varied issue text.

 Task difficulty correlates with solvability but not with effectiveness as training data. 
First, we run our difficulty rating model on 10 10 10 10 k randomly selected \bugs task instances.
From this pool, we curate subsets of 1000 1000 1000 1000 instances corresponding to the three difficulty levels, then run expert trajectory generation per subset 3 3 3 3 times.
For the easy / medium / hard subsets, the resolve rate by the expert model are 58.6 58.6 58.6 58.6 %, 41.0 41.0 41.0 41.0 %, and 17.0 17.0 17.0 17.0 % respectively. 

 Next, from all successful trajectories, we create four fine-tuning datasets of 500 500 500 500 trajectories each corresponding to difficulty scores of 2 2 2 2 , 4 4 4 4 , 6 6 6 6 , and 8 8 8 8 .
As mentioned in Section  2.2 , the corresponding scores for easy / medium / hard are 1 1 1 1 / 5 5 5 5 / 9 9 9 9 .
Therefore, the SFT dataset for score 2 2 2 2 is made up of trajectories corresponding to 375 375 375 375 easy and 125 125 125 125 medium instances, and so on.
Somewhat surprisingly, we do not observe strong correlation between increased difficulty and downstream performance.
For the student models trained on the 2 2 2 2 / 4 4 4 4 / 6 6 6 6 / 8 8 8 8 difficulty SFT datasets, we get pass@1 scores of 12.4 12.4 12.4 12.4 %, 10.8 10.8 10.8 10.8 %, 13.6 13.6 13.6 13.6 %, and 12.2 12.2 12.2 12.2 % on SWE-bench Verified. 

 Figure 3: 
We fine-tune a 7 7 7 7 B base and our 32 32 32 32 B models on 700 700 700 700 trajectories for SymPy.
Specialization boosts performance with minor generalization loss.

 Figure 4: 
At 700 700 700 700 training samples, we observe performance increases logarithmically with repositories.

 Training on more repositories improves general performance. 
We train models in four settings by sampling 700 700 700 700 expert trajectories on Procedural Modification tasks from pools of 4 4 4 4 , 25 25 25 25 , 50 50 50 50 , and 100 100 100 100 repositories.
Echoing similar findings for code generation tasks  (Xie et al., 2025b ) , we find that increasing repositories represented in the training set improves performance, as shown in Figure  4 , with an approximately logarithmic relation between model performance and number of repositories. 

 Repository-specialized models excel on the target repository with minor generalization loss. 
We experiment with training models to be specialists on one particular repository.
To assess performance, we evaluate models on a subset of SWE-bench Verified tasks that are (1) from SymPy, and (2) created after January 1st, 2022, a total of 22 22 22 22 instances.
To create SymPy specific training data, we first select a base commit of SymPy just before the cutoff date.
Next, we create 1276 1276 1276 1276 Procedural Modification task instances, then generate 700 700 700 700 expert trajectories.
We evaluate specialization in two settings: (1) single-repository fine-tuning, and (2) specialist stage fine-tuning, both shown in Figure  4 .
For single-repository tuning, we compare a model initialized with Qwen-2.5-Coder-Instruct 7B and trained on 700 700 700 700 instances sampled from 100 100 100 100 repositories, to the same Qwen base model but fine-tuned on the 700 700 700 700 SymPy instances only.
For specialist stage fine-tuning, we simply compare SWE-agent-LM-32B to the same model further fine-tuned on the 700 700 700 700 SymPy instances. 

 Specialization significantly boosts performance for the target repository with only slight drops in general performance in both the single-repository fine-tuning ( 21.2 21.2 21.2 21.2 % vs. 13.6 13.6 13.6 13.6 %) and specialist stage fine-tuning ( 42.4 42.4 42.4 42.4 % vs. 33.3 33.3 33.3 33.3 %) settings. 

 4.2 Analysis of Agent Behavior 

 Figure 5: 
 SWE-agent-LM-32B takes fewer steps to submit compared to Claude 3.7 Sonnet for instances resolved by both models.

 Figure 6: 
For unsuccessfully resolved tasks, a frequent failure mode is that SWE-agent-LM-32B will repeat actions.

 This section analyzes the behavior, failure modes, and efficiency of SWE-agent when run with SWE-agent-LM-32B or Claude 3.7 Sonnet on SWE-bench verified. 

 SWE-agent-LM-32B can solve tasks efficiently. SWE-agent-LM-32B resolves tasks in fewer steps on average (24.9) than Claude 3.7 Sonnet (29.1), though the difference becomes marginal when accounting for different average difficulties of the resolved tasks: On the overlap of tasks that are resolved by both LMs, SWE-agent-LM-32B uses 24.8 steps compared to 25.6 used by Claude 3.7 Sonnet (see Fig.  6 ).
While shorter trajectories are not always preferred (additional actions can be used for additional validation purposes, for example), this shows that SWE-agent-LM-32B solves tasks very efficiently.
At the same time SWE-agent-LM-32B also demonstrates that it can remain focused throughout long trajectories, with 31 instances being resolved after 40 steps or more.
We further highlight that the accuracy of naturally terminating
 1 1 1 i.e., excluding agent runs that are terminated due to errors or cost/step count limits. Note that SWE-agent still extracts and submits any changes performed by the agent in these cases and some of them can be successful (for example if the agent is terminated due to cost while testing already performed edits). 
agent submissions with SWE-agent-LM-32B achieve an accuracy nearly matching that of Claude 3.7 Sonnet (60% vs 63%), showing that SWE-agent-LM-32B is adept at determining whether an instance has been resolved.
As the overall cost and turn count averages scale strongly with the cost and turn limits, we reserve a more thorough analysis for § F.5.1 . 

 Repetitive actions are a key problem. 
We observe a tendency for SWE-agent-LM-32B to get stuck in long sequences of repetitive actions, in particular long sequences of calls that display different portions of a file instead of using search commands.
 2 2 2 In fact, these str_replace_editor view commands make up 73 73 73 73 % of the longest repetitive sequences. For this analysis, we look at repetitions of the base command, i.e., without any arguments. See § F.5 for more. 
More than 25% of SWE-agent-LM-32B trajectories have a repetitive sequence of at least length 10, compared to less than 4% for Claude 3.7 Sonnet (see Figure  6 ).
The occurrence of long repetitive sequences correlates strongly with the agent’s ability to solve the corresponding task instance, largely because the LM continues issuing similar commands until either the agent cost or turn limit is reached, at which point the run is terminated.
For example, repetitive sequences of length 10 correspond to an 89% failure probability.
Simple interventions from the agent scaffold can mitigate repetitive actions, but do not seem to improve resolve rates (see § F.5 ). 

 Figure 7: 
More than half of the unresolved instances of SWE-agent-LM-32B correspond to runs terminated by cost/step limits, and these limits are frequently reached before source code has been modified. See § F.5 for more.

 Localization is the dominant failure mode. 
Guided by a short plan in the system prompt, SWE-agent typically starts by localizing (search and read actions), reproducing (test file creation and execution), before modifying source files and validating the fixes.
If the agent gets stuck at any of these stages or keeps on iterating, the agent loop is eventually interrupted by runtime limits (cost, number of LM calls, runtime).
While this rarely happens with Claude 3.7 Sonnet, 53% of SWE-agent-LM-32b ’s failures are associated with such limits (Figure  7 ).
The agent often already gets stuck during localization or initial efforts to reproduce a bug, with endlessly repeated actions being a persistent issue.
More on failure modes in § F.5 . 

 5 Related Work 
 
 LMs for Software Engineering. As contemporary LMs have saturated traditional code generation tasks  (Austin et al., 2021 ; Chen et al., 2021 ) , software engineering benchmarks  (Jain et al., 2024 ; Jimenez et al., 2024b ; Yang et al., 2024b ; Zhao et al., 2024 ; Zan et al., 2025 ) , notably SWE-bench, have become a new de facto evaluation setting due to their diverse, complex, real-world programming challenges.
The most significant source of open source progress on SWE-bench has been the development of LM-based workflows  (Orwall, 2024 ; Xia et al., 2024 ; Zhang et al., 2024b ) and agents  (Antoniades et al., 2024 ; Wang et al., 2024 ; Yang et al., 2024a ; Zhang et al., 2024a ) .
Workflow-based systems are typically human-engineered decompositions of a task into a sequence of sub-goals.
 Yang et al. ( 2024b ) suggests such pipelines may not generalize effectively to non-Python repositories, requiring additional human intervention to re-adapt.
We therefore elect to focus on generating trajectories with and for LM agent systems  (Sumers et al., 2024 ; Yang et al., 2023 ; Yao et al., 2023b ) .
Because no workflow is imposed, agent systems inherently rely more on the LM to plan and refine its actions, putting more focus on an LM’s capabilities, not inference scaffolds. 

 Training Datasets for Coding. 
Prior work around training data has focused on instruction following   (Luo et al., 2023 ; Muennighoff et al., 2024 ; Shypula et al., 2024 ; Wei et al., 2024a ; b ; Yu et al., 2024 ) and preference learning  (Liu et al., 2024a ; b ) for code completion tasks.
Several recent works introduce training sets for retrieval augmented generation  (Jimenez et al., 2024b ; Xie et al., 2025a ) , workflows  (Wei et al., 2025 ) , and agent  (Badertdinov et al., 2024 ; Ma et al., 2024 ; Pan et al., 2024 ; Jain et al., 2025 ) approaches to SWE-bench.
Our work applies  Haluptzok et al. ( 2023 ) at a repository level: by having an LM break a codebase, we drastically reduce the human effort needed to define a task and build its environment.
Concurrent to our work, Xie et al. ( 2025b ) (RePOST) also constructs execution environments for repository functions, but differs significantly in methodology and evaluation.
RePOST sandboxes a function and its dependencies to a separate script, then generates tests with an LM, removing the original codebase as context.
The tasks’ source is repository-level; the environments and tasks are not.
RePOST evaluates solely on code generation (e.g., HumanEval  (Chen et al., 2021 ) ).
 Jain et al. ( 2025 ) (R2E-Gym) improves open source LMs’ performance on SWE-bench with inference time scaling and verifiers.
R2E-gym’s 51 51 51 51 % resolve rate is not comparable to Table  3 results, as each instance is attempted 26 26 26 26 times.
R2E-gym’s 4.6 4.6 4.6 4.6 k training instances are collected using SWE-bench’s pipeline, with some augmentations around using LMs to synthesize issue text and tests.
To our knowledge, we are the first to address the limited scalability
of previous approaches. 

 6 Discussion 
 
 Limitations and future directions. 
First, \bugs ’s collection pipeline is Python-centric.
The mechanisms to identify programmatic objects (e.g. functions, classes) and perform transformations rely heavily on the Python specific ast library.
That said, \bugs ’s collection strategy is transferable to other languages.
Second, due to both compute/budget constraints and our work’s primary stance as a dataset contribution, we only include fine-tuning as a demonstration of \bugs ’s effectiveness.
We do not explore other training techniques such as reasoning capabilities elicited via reinforcement learning. 

 Conclusion. 
We introduce \bugs , a dataset of 50 50 50 50 k software engineering task instances from across 128 128 128 128 real world GitHub repositories.
 \bugs collection pipeline allows us to scale up task instances, environments, and trajectories at a fraction of prior costs without sacrificing faithfulness to open source software development practices.
Using \bugs , we train SWE-agent-LM-32B , achieving a state-of-the-art 40.2 40.2 40.2 40.2 % on SWE-bench Verified.
Our experiments show how \bugs can be used to identify fundamental trends about developing SWE-agents.
We believe \bugs provides the foundational data and infrastructure needed to train software engineering agents in a truly scalable manner. 

 Acknowledgments 
 
 We thank Princeton Language Intelligence (PLI) for providing credits for running closed-source API models.
Thanks to Samuel Ainsworth for his constant support of bitbop.io ( https://bitbop.io/ ), the compute service for which the majority of the project was carried out with.
We’d also like to thank Akshat Bubna, Howard Halim, Andrew Liu, Peyton Walters, and the great team at Modal ( https://modal.com/ ) for providing credits that made fine-tuning and model serving efforts extremely easy for this project.
This work is partially supported by ONR grant N000142412532 and NSF grant IIS-2247357.
We also thank Open Philanthropy and Andreessen Horowitz for providing funding for this work.
Finally, thanks to Tianyu Gao, William Held, Niklas Muennighoff, Rafael Rafailov, Yijia Shao, Chenglei Si, Anikait Singh, Tianyi Zhang, Kexin Pei, and Karthik Narasimhan for constructive discussions and support throughout this project. 

 References 

 Anthropic (2024) 
 
Anthropic.

 Introducing claude 3.5 sonnet, 2024.

 URL https://www.anthropic.com/news/claude-3-5-sonnet .

 Anthropic (2025) 
 
Anthropic.

 Introducing claude 3.7 sonnet, 2025.

 URL https://www.anthropic.com/news/claude-3-7-sonnet .

 Antoniades et al. (2024) 
 
Antonis Antoniades, Albert Örwall, Kexun Zhang, Yuxi Xie, Anirudh Goyal, and William Wang.

 SWE-Search: Enhancing Software Agents with Monte Carlo Tree Search and Iterative Refinement, December 2024.

 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.20285 .

 arXiv:2410.20285 [cs].

 Austin et al. (2021) 
 
Jacob Austin, Augustus Odena, Maxwell Nye, Maarten Bosma, Henryk Michalewski, David Dohan, Ellen Jiang, Carrie Cai, Michael Terry, Quoc Le, and Charles Sutton.

 Program Synthesis with Large Language Models, August 2021.

 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2108.07732 .

 arXiv:2108.07732 [cs].

 Badertdinov et al. (2024) 
 
Ibragim Badertdinov, Maria Trofimova, Yuri Anapolskiy, Sergey Abramov, Karina Zainullina, Alexander Golubev, Sergey Polezhaev, Daria Litvintseva, Simon Karasik, Filipp Fisin, Sergey Skvortsov, Maxim Nekrashevich, Anton Shevtsov, and Boris Yangel.

 Scaling data collection for training software engineering agents.

 Nebius blog , 2024.

 Bogin et al. (2024) 
 
Ben Bogin, Kejuan Yang, Shashank Gupta, Kyle Richardson, Erin Bransom, Peter Clark, Ashish Sabharwal, and Tushar Khot.

 Super: Evaluating agents on setting up and executing tasks from research repositories, 2024.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.07440 .

 Chen et al. (2023) 
 
Baian Chen, Chang Shu, Ehsan Shareghi, Nigel Collier, Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu Yao.

 FireAct: Toward Language Agent Fine-tuning, October 2023.

 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2310.05915 .

 arXiv:2310.05915 [cs].

 Chen et al. (2021) 
 
Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan, Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto, Jared Kaplan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph, Greg Brockman, Alex Ray, Raul Puri, Gretchen Krueger, Michael Petrov, Heidy Khlaaf, Girish Sastry, Pamela Mishkin, Brooke Chan, Scott Gray, Nick Ryder, Mikhail Pavlov, Alethea Power, Lukasz Kaiser, Mohammad Bavarian, Clemens Winter, Philippe Tillet, Felipe Petroski Such, Dave Cummings, Matthias Plappert, Fotios Chantzis, Elizabeth Barnes, Ariel Herbert-Voss, William Hebgen Guss, Alex Nichol, Alex Paino, Nikolas Tezak, Jie Tang, Igor Babuschkin, Suchir Balaji, Shantanu Jain, William Saunders, Christopher Hesse, Andrew N. Carr, Jan Leike, Josh Achiam, Vedant Misra, Evan Morikawa, Alec Radford, Matthew Knight, Miles Brundage, Mira Murati, Katie Mayer, Peter Welinder, Bob McGrew, Dario Amodei, Sam McCandlish, Ilya Sutskever, and Wojciech Zaremba.

 Evaluating Large Language Models Trained on Code, July 2021.

 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2107.03374 .

 arXiv:2107.03374 [cs].

 Chowdhury et al. (2024) 
 
Neil Chowdhury, James Aung, Chan Jun Shern, Oliver Jaffe, Dane Sherburn, Giulio Starace, Evan Mays, Rachel Dias, Marwan Aljubeh, Mia Glaese, et al.

 Introducing swe-bench verified, 2024.

 URL https://openai.com/index/introducing-swe-bench-verified , 2024.

 Daniel Han team (2023) 
 
Michael Han Daniel Han and Unsloth team.

 Unsloth, 2023.

 URL http://github.com/unslothai/unsloth .

 Eliseeva et al. (2025) 
 
Aleksandra Eliseeva, Alexander Kovrigin, Ilia Kholkin, Egor Bogomolov, and Yaroslav Zharov.

 Envbench: A benchmark for automated environment setup, 2025.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.14443 .

 Haluptzok et al. (2023) 
 
Patrick Haluptzok, Matthew Bowers, and Adam Tauman Kalai.

 Language models can teach themselves to program better, 2023.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2207.14502 .

 Hu et al. (2021) 
 
Edward J. Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang, and Weizhu Chen.

 Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language models, 2021.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.09685 .

 Hui et al. (2024) 
 
Binyuan Hui, Jian Yang, Zeyu Cui, Jiaxi Yang, Dayiheng Liu, Lei Zhang, Tianyu Liu, Jiajun Zhang, Bowen Yu, Keming Lu, Kai Dang, Yang Fan, Yichang Zhang, An Yang, Rui Men, Fei Huang, Bo Zheng, Yibo Miao, Shanghaoran Quan, Yunlong Feng, Xingzhang Ren, Xuancheng Ren, Jingren Zhou, and Junyang Lin.

 Qwen2.5-coder technical report, 2024.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.12186 .

 Jain et al. (2024) 
 
Naman Jain, Manish Shetty, Tianjun Zhang, King Han, Koushik Sen, and Ion Stoica.

 R2e: Turning any github repository into a programming agent environment.

 In ICML 2024 , 2024.

 Jain et al. (2025) 
 
Naman Jain, Jaskirat Singh, Manish Shetty, Liang Zheng, Koushik Sen, and Ion Stoica.

 R2e-gym: Procedural environments and hybrid verifiers for scaling open-weights swe agents, 2025.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.07164 .

 Jimenez et al. (2024a) 
 
Carlos E. Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik Narasimhan.

 Swe-bench leaderboard, 2024a.

 URL https://swe-bench.github.io/ .

 Jimenez et al. (2024b) 
 
Carlos E. Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik Narasimhan.

 SWE-bench: Can Language Models Resolve Real-World GitHub Issues?, November 2024b.

 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06770 .

 arXiv:2310.06770 [cs].

 Liu et al. (2024a) 
 
Jiawei Liu, Thanh Nguyen, Mingyue Shang, Hantian Ding, Xiaopeng Li, Yu Yu, Varun Kumar, and Zijian Wang.

 Learning code preference via synthetic evolution, 2024a.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.03837 .

 Liu et al. (2024b) 
 
Zhihan Liu, Shenao Zhang, Yongfei Liu, Boyi Liu, Yingxiang Yang, and Zhaoran Wang.

 DSTC: Direct Preference Learning with Only Self-Generated Tests and Code to Improve Code LMs, December 2024b.

 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13611 .

 arXiv:2411.13611 [cs].

 Luo et al. (2023) 
 
Ziyang Luo, Can Xu, Pu Zhao, Qingfeng Sun, Xiubo Geng, Wenxiang Hu, Chongyang Tao, Jing Ma, Qingwei Lin, and Daxin Jiang.

 Wizardcoder: Empowering code large language models with evol-instruct, 2023.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.08568 .

 Ma et al. (2024) 
 
Yingwei Ma, Rongyu Cao, Yongchang Cao, Yue Zhang, Jue Chen, Yibo Liu, Yuchen Liu, Binhua Li, Fei Huang, and Yongbin Li.

 Lingma swe-gpt: An open development-process-centric language model for automated software improvement, 2024.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00622 .

 Modal (2025) 
 
Modal.

 Modal: High-performance ai infrastructure, 2025.

 URL https://modal.com/ .

 Muennighoff et al. (2024) 
 
Niklas Muennighoff, Qian Liu, Armel Zebaze, Qinkai Zheng, Binyuan Hui, Terry Yue Zhuo, Swayam Singh, Xiangru Tang, Leandro von Werra, and Shayne Longpre.

 OctoPack: Instruction Tuning Code Large Language Models, February 2024.

 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2308.07124 .

 arXiv:2308.07124 [cs].

 Murty et al. (2024) 
 
Shikhar Murty, Dzmitry Bahdanau, and Christopher D. Manning.

 NNetscape Navigator: Complex Demonstrations for Web Agents Without a Demonstrator, October 2024.

 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.02907 .

 arXiv:2410.02907 [cs].

 Mündler et al. (2025) 
 
Niels Mündler, Mark Niklas Müller, Jingxuan He, and Martin Vechev.

 Swt-bench: Testing and validating real-world bug-fixes with code agents, 2025.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.12952 .

 OpenAI (2024a) 
 
OpenAI.

 Gpt-4o system card, 2024a.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.21276 .

 OpenAI (2024b) 
 
OpenAI.

 Openai o3-mini system card, 2024b.

 URL https://cdn.openai.com/o3-mini-system-card-feb10.pdf .

 Orwall (2024) 
 
Albert Orwall.

 Moatless tools, 2024.

 URL https://github.com/aorwall/moatless-tools .

 Ou et al. (2024) 
 
Tianyue Ou, Frank F. Xu, Aman Madaan, Jiarui Liu, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Sudipta Sengupta, Dan Roth, Graham Neubig, and Shuyan Zhou.

 Synatra: Turning Indirect Knowledge into Direct Demonstrations for Digital Agents at Scale, September 2024.

 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.15637 .

 arXiv:2409.15637 [cs].

 Pan et al. (2024) 
 
Jiayi Pan, Xingyao Wang, Graham Neubig, Navdeep Jaitly, Heng Ji, Alane Suhr, and Yizhe Zhang.

 Training Software Engineering Agents and Verifiers with SWE-Gym, December 2024.

 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.21139 .

 arXiv:2412.21139 [cs].

 PyTorch (2024) 
 
PyTorch.

 torchtune: Pytorch’s finetuning library, April 2024.

 URL https//github.com/pytorch/torchtune .

 Qwen et al. (2025) 
 
Qwen, An Yang, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chengyuan Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jian Yang, Jianhong Tu, Jianwei Zhang, Jianxin Yang, Jiaxi Yang, Jingren Zhou, Junyang Lin, Kai Dang, Keming Lu, Keqin Bao, Kexin Yang, Le Yu, Mei Li, Mingfeng Xue, Pei Zhang, Qin Zhu, Rui Men, Runji Lin, Tianhao Li, Tianyi Tang, Tingyu Xia, Xingzhang Ren, Xuancheng Ren, Yang Fan, Yang Su, Yichang Zhang, Yu Wan, Yuqiong Liu, Zeyu Cui, Zhenru Zhang, and Zihan Qiu.

 Qwen2.5 Technical Report, January 2025.

 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15115 .

 arXiv:2412.15115 [cs].

 Shen et al. (2024) 
 
Junhong Shen, Atishay Jain, Zedian Xiao, Ishan Amlekar, Mouad Hadji, Aaron Podolny, and Ameet Talwalkar.

 Scribeagent: Towards specialized web agents using production-scale workflow data, 2024.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.15004 .

 Shypula et al. (2024) 
 
Alexander Shypula, Aman Madaan, Yimeng Zeng, Uri Alon, Jacob Gardner, Milad Hashemi, Graham Neubig, Parthasarathy Ranganathan, Osbert Bastani, and Amir Yazdanbakhsh.

 Learning performance-improving code edits, 2024.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.07867 .

 Sumers et al. (2024) 
 
Theodore R. Sumers, Shunyu Yao, Karthik Narasimhan, and Thomas L. Griffiths.

 Cognitive architectures for language agents, 2024.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.02427 .

 Vergopoulos et al. (2025) 
 
Konstantinos Vergopoulos, Mark Niklas Müller, and Martin Vechev.

 Automated benchmark generation for repository-level coding tasks, 2025.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07701 .

 Wang et al. (2024) 
 
Xingyao Wang, Boxuan Li, Yufan Song, Frank F. Xu, Xiangru Tang, Mingchen Zhuge, Jiayi Pan, Yueqi Song, Bowen Li, Jaskirat Singh, Hoang H. Tran, Fuqiang Li, Ren Ma, Mingzhang Zheng, Bill Qian, Yanjun Shao, Niklas Muennighoff, Yizhe Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Junyang Lin, Robert Brennan, Hao Peng, Heng Ji, and Graham Neubig.

 OpenHands: An Open Platform for AI Software Developers as Generalist Agents, October 2024.

 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.16741 .

 arXiv:2407.16741 [cs].

 Wei et al. (2024a) 
 
Yuxiang Wei, Federico Cassano, Jiawei Liu, Yifeng Ding, Naman Jain, Zachary Mueller, Harm de Vries, Leandro von Werra, Arjun Guha, and Lingming Zhang.

 SelfCodeAlign: Self-Alignment for Code Generation, November 2024a.

 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24198 .

 arXiv:2410.24198 [cs].

 Wei et al. (2024b) 
 
Yuxiang Wei, Zhe Wang, Jiawei Liu, Yifeng Ding, and Lingming Zhang.

 Magicoder: Empowering code generation with oss-instruct, 2024b.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02120 .

 Wei et al. (2025) 
 
Yuxiang Wei, Olivier Duchenne, Jade Copet, Quentin Carbonneaux, Lingming Zhang, Daniel Fried, Gabriel Synnaeve, Rishabh Singh, and Sida I. Wang.

 SWE-RL: Advancing llm reasoning via reinforcement learning on open software evolution, 2025.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.18449 .

 Xia et al. (2024) 
 
Chunqiu Steven Xia, Yinlin Deng, Soren Dunn, and Lingming Zhang.

 Agentless: Demystifying LLM-based Software Engineering Agents, October 2024.

 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.01489 .

 arXiv:2407.01489 [cs].

 Xiang et al. (2023) 
 
Jiannan Xiang, Tianhua Tao, Yi Gu, Tianmin Shu, Zirui Wang, Zichao Yang, and Zhiting Hu.

 Language Models Meet World Models: Embodied Experiences Enhance Language Models, October 2023.

 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2305.10626 .

 arXiv:2305.10626 [cs].

 Xie et al. (2025a) 
 
Chengxing Xie, Bowen Li, Chang Gao, He Du, Wai Lam, Difan Zou, and Kai Chen.

 Swe-fixer: Training open-source llms for effective and efficient github issue resolution, 2025a.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.05040 .

 Xie et al. (2024) 
 
Tianbao Xie, Danyang Zhang, Jixuan Chen, Xiaochuan Li, Siheng Zhao, Ruisheng Cao, Toh Jing Hua, Zhoujun Cheng, Dongchan Shin, Fangyu Lei, Yitao Liu, Yiheng Xu, Shuyan Zhou, Silvio Savarese, Caiming Xiong, Victor Zhong, and Tao Yu.

 OSWorld: Benchmarking Multimodal Agents for Open-Ended Tasks in Real Computer Environments, May 2024.

 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.07972 .

 arXiv:2404.07972 [cs].

 Xie et al. (2025b) 
 
Yiqing Xie, Alex Xie, Divyanshu Sheth, Pengfei Liu, Daniel Fried, and Carolyn Rose.

 Repost: Scalable repository-level coding environment construction with sandbox testing, 2025b.

 URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07358 .

 Xu et al. (2024) 
 
Yiheng Xu, Dunjie Lu, Zhennan Shen, Junli Wang, Zekun Wang, Yuchen Mao, Caiming Xiong, and Tao Yu.

 AgentTrek: Agent Trajectory Synthesis via Guiding Replay with Web Tutorials, December 2024.

 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09605 .

 arXiv:2412.09605 [cs].

 Yang et al. (2023) 
 
John Yang, Akshara Prabhakar, Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu Yao.

 InterCode: Standardizing and Benchmarking Interactive Coding with Execution Feedback, October 2023.

 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2306.14898 .

 arXiv:2306.14898 [cs].

 Yang et al. (2024a) 
 
John Yang, Carlos E. Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kilian Lieret, Shunyu Yao, Karthik Narasimhan, and Ofir Press.

 SWE-agent: Agent-Computer Interfaces Enable Automated Software Engineering, November 2024a.

 URL http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.15793 .

 arXiv:2405.15793 [cs].

 Yang et al. (2024b) 
 
John Yang, Carlos E. Jimenez, Alex L. Zhang, Kilian Lieret, Joyce Yang, Xindi W