# FULL TEXT — What do Blind and Low-Vision People Really Want from Assistive Smart Devices? Comparison of the Literature with a Focus Study

https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.19325v1

What do Blind and Low-Vision People Really Want from Assistive Smart Devices? Comparison of the Literature with a Focus Study 

 1 Introduction 
 2 Background 
 
 3 Study 1 - Scoping Review 
 
 3.1 Literature Search and Review Methodology 
 3.2 Data Extraction 
 3.3 Results 

 4 Study 2 - Needs of People Who are Blind or have Low-Vision (BLV) 
 
 4.1 Participants 
 4.2 Procedure 
 4.3 Results 

 5 Comparison Discussion 
 
 5.1 Which tasks should researchers explore? 
 5.2 Which interaction modalities are preferred? 
 5.3 Which devices are preferred? 
 5.4 Why is Blind and Low-Vision community involvement important in smart assistive device research? 

 6 Limitations 
 7 Conclusion 
 A Tech Adoption Groups 
 B Details of participants 
 C Tasks 

 What do Blind and Low-Vision People Really Want from Assistive Smart Devices? Comparison of the Literature with a Focus Study 

 Bhanuka Gamage
 
 bhanuka.gamage@monash.edu 
 
 0000-0003-0502-5883 
 Monash University Melbourne Australia 
 
 ,  
 Thanh-Toan Do
 
 toan.do@monash.edu 
 
 0000-0002-6249-0848 
 Monash University Melbourne Australia 
 
 ,  
 Nicholas Seow Chiang Price
 
 nicholas.price@monash.edu 
 
 0000-0001-9404-7704 
 Monash University Melbourne Australia 
 
 ,  
 Arthur Lowery
 
 arthur.lowery@monash.edu 

 Monash University Melbourne Australia 
 
  and  
 Kim Marriott
 
 0000-0002-9813-0377 
 kim.marriott@monash.edu 
 
 Monash University Melbourne Australia 

 (2023) 
 
 Abstract. 
 Over the last decade there has been considerable research into how artificial intelligence (AI), specifically computer vision, can assist people who are blind or have low-vision (BLV) to understand their environment.
However, there has been almost no research into whether the tasks (object detection, image captioning, text recognition etc.) and devices (smartphones, smart-glasses etc.) investigated by researchers align with the needs and preferences of BLV people.
We identified 646 studies published in the last two and a half years that have investigated such assistive AI techniques.
We analysed these papers to determine the task, device and participation by BLV individuals.
We then interviewed 24 BLV people and asked for their top five AI-based applications and to rank the applications found in the literature.
We found only a weak positive correlation between BLV participants’ perceived importance of tasks and researchers’ focus and that participants prefer conversational agent interface and head-mounted devices. 
 
 smart devices, wearable, mobile application, augmented reality, virtual reality, recognition
 
 † † journalyear: 2023 † † copyright: acmlicensed † † conference: The 25th International ACM SIGACCESS Conference on Computers and Accessibility; October 22–25, 2023; New York, NY, USA † † booktitle: The 25th International ACM SIGACCESS Conference on Computers and Accessibility (ASSETS ’23), October 22–25, 2023, New York, NY, USA † † price: 15.00 † † doi: 10.1145/3597638.3608955 † † isbn: 979-8-4007-0220-4/23/10 † † ccs: Human-centered computing Accessibility technologies † † ccs: General and reference Surveys and overviews 

 1. Introduction 
 
 According to the latest World Health Organisation (WHO) statistics, 2.2 billion people have a near or distance vision impairment ((2023), WHO ) .
For sighted people, vision is the primary way they perceive their environment and the objects in it.
Lack of information about their environment and the objects in it is a severe disabling consequence of blindness and low-vision (BLV) (Hershberger, 1992 ; Butler et al . , 2002 ) .
As a consequence, a major focus of assistive technology research has been to provide BLV people with information about their environment so that they can travel independently and more confidently interact with the objects and people around them (Du and Bulusu, 2021a ; Gamal et al . , 2020 ; Kuriakose et al . , 2021 ; Caballero et al . , 2020 ) . 

 Recent advances in deep learning have led to breakthroughs in artificial intelligence (AI), in particular in natural language processing (NLP) and computer vision (CV) applications  (Vaswani et al . , 2017 ; cha, 2023 ) .
As a consequence there has been widespread interest in utilising computer vision based assistive technologies to provide BLV people with environmental information.
These range from simple object recognition (Bashiri et al . , 2018 ; Arora et al . , 2019 ; Joshi et al . , 2020 ) to autonomous guidance systems (Chen and Shiu, 2020 ; Loomis et al . , 2005 ; Otaegui et al . , 2013 ) and have been employed on a variety of “smart” devices ranging from glasses  (Guarese et al . , 2021 ; Islam et al . , 2020 ; Lin et al . , 2020 ) to robotic dogs  (Hong et al . , 2022 ; Bruno et al . , 2019 ) . 

 However, while on average more than 200 papers are now being published each year on this topic, it is unclear if this research actually addresses the real-world needs of BLV people.
The overarching question we tackle is: Does current research in such smart assistive technologies address the needs of the BLV users, and if not what needs should researchers address? 

 We conducted a three step investigation to investigate this question.
The first step was a scoping literature review (Munn et al . , 2018 ) (Section  3 ).
We identified 646 research papers published within the past two and a half years that investigated the use of computer vision based applications as an aid for BLV people to comprehend various aspects of their environment.
We recorded the specific task and devices utilised in these studies, and the kind of interaction model.
We also recorded the involvement of people who are blind or have low-vision (BLV) in the research and their role as prior research suggests that end-user involvement in the design of assistive technology leads to increased satisfaction and adoption by users (Steen et al . , 2011 ) . 

 In the second step of our study (Section 4 ), we conducted semi-structured interviews with 24 BLV participants.
During these interviews, we identified the top five tasks that they would like a smart device to assist with, as well as the type of device they preferred.
We also asked them to rank the usefulness of the tasks identified in the literature.
Lastly, we inquired about any concerns they had regarding the use of smart devices. 

 In the final step of our study (Section  5 ), we compared and contrasted the results of the literature review and the interviews conducted with BLV participants. To the best of our knowledge this is the first research comparing researcher focus with BLV participant priorities in the field of assistive smart devices. Our findings were as follows: 

 • 
 
 There is only a weak positive correlation between BLV participants’ perceived importance of tasks and researchers’ focus on those tasks. 

 • 
 
 The majority of studies (82%) did not involve BLV participants. However, for those studies that did we found a slightly higher correlation, in particular if BLV participants were involved during the research design stage. 

 • 
 
 While all participants were excited by the potential of computer vision based smart assistive technologies, they identified a number of tasks such as filling in paper forms and empty seat detection that warrant more attention by researchers. 

 • 
 
 Conversational agent type interfaces are preferred by participants, but there is limited research on this topic in the context of smart devices providing environmental information. 

 • 
 
 Head-mounted devices are favoured by participants, but the choice of wearable device depends on the task and environment. 

 • 
 
 There is a desire for universal devices or platforms that enable seamless usage without the need for device switching. 

 This study will provide valuable guidance for researchers working in the field of smart assistive technologies and enable them to focus on tasks and interactions that are prioritised by the BLV community.
In turn this will make it more likely that the technologies developed will be of use and adopted by the community. 

 Table 1 . Keywords 

 Technology 
 Visual Impairment 
 Task 

 ”augmented reality” 
 ”sight loss” 
 description 

 ”virtual reality” 
 blindness 
 caption 

 ”mixed reality” 
 ”low vision” 
 recognition 

 mobile 
 ”vision loss” 
 ”image enhanc*” 

 wearable* 
 ”vision aids” 

 ”smart*phone app*” 
 ”impaired vision” 

 ”visual loss” 

 ”vision impair*” 

 ”smart glasses” 
 ”visual* impair*” 

 Google Scholar 

 ”smart phone application” 
 ”vision impairment” 
 ”image enhancement” 

 ”smart phone app” 
 ”vision impairments” 
 ”image enhance” 

 ”vision impaired” 
 ”image enhancing” 

 ”visual impairment” 
 ”image enhancer” 

 ”visual impairments” 

 ”visually impaired” 

 Table 2 . Inclusion Exclusion criteria 

 Inclusion 

 Must utilise computer vision to understand the immediate environment of the user. 

 The research application should state it aims to aid the BLV community. 

 Exclusion 

 Devices that are not worn or carried by the user such as smart home devices.
Applications where only ultra-sonic sensors are used as a mode of detection. 

 Pure VR experiences without any real world integration. 

 Simulations of different visual impairments using VR. 

 2. Background 
 
 In this section we review prior research into the use of smart devices by BLV people.
We define smart devices as personal assistive technologies that use AI-based computer vision to help an individual understand their surroundings.
They might be smartphone applications, stand-alone devices (hand-held, canes) or wearables (belts, caps). We are particularly interested in identifying the tasks that these smart devices can perform to help BLV users.
This can be as simple as detecting a wallet or as complex as guiding the user to buy their groceries. 

 Smart device technologies: 
 
 Hundreds of papers have described computer vision based smart devices intended for use by BLV people.
These include hand-held devices (Akbari et al . , 2020 ; Lee et al . , 2021 ; Sreeraj et al . , 2020 ) , smart glasses (Guarese et al . , 2021 ; Islam et al . , 2020 ; Lin et al . , 2020 ) , smart caps (Konaite et al . , 2021 ; Yang et al . , 2021 ; Priya et al . , 2020 ) , smart canes (Yadav et al . , 2020 ; Akinsiku et al . , 2020 ; Narayani et al . , 2021 ) and many more (Kathiravan et al . , 2021 ; Tachiquin et al . , 2021 ; Argüello Prada and Santacruz Forero, 2022 ; Boldini et al . , 2020 ) .
These utilise image enhancement (Zhao et al . , 2016 ; Lang et al . , 2020 ; Du and Bulusu, 2021b ) , question and answering (Cao et al . , 2022 ; Yamanaka et al . , 2022 ) and other forms of interaction to assist their users.
Tasks include Face Detection (Bermejo et al . , 2020 ; Kumar et al . , 2022 ) , Text Recognition (Ouali et al . , 2022 ; Prabha et al . , 2022 ) , Road Sign Detection (Gorapudi et al . , 2020 ; Kim, 2020 ) and many more.
Numerous commercially available AI smart devices have also emerged employing a variety of devices  (see, 2023 ; Cohen, 2023 ; env, 2023a ; str, 2023 ; nue, 2023 ; vis, 2023 ; goo, 2023 ) . 

 Several papers have reviewed these different devices and technologies (Li et al . , 2022 ; Patel and Parmar, 2020 ; Simões et al . , 2020 ; Kuriakose et al . , 2020 ; Khan and Khusro, 2021 ; Valipoor and de Antonio, 2022 ) .
Li et al. (Li et al . , 2022 ) evaluated head-mounted displays (HMD) for assistive and therapeutic applications for BLV people.
They reviewed 61 studies and classified the studies based on the type of HMDs, the visualisation approaches, the visual condition and if the evaluation was done using a user study.
The main focus of their study was to analyse the current state of assistive HMDs and present emerging trends. 

 Patel and Parmar (Patel and Parmar, 2020 ) reviewed 13 vision substitution devices and studies for BLV individuals that used computer vision and image enhancement.
The authors noted that only a limited number of assistive devices were commercially available, and the majority of devices had not been tested under real-world conditions. 

 Khan and Khusro (Khan and Khusro, 2021 ) conducted a review of smartphone-based assistive technologies for BLV people, emphasising the importance of technological advancements, inclusive interfaces, and collaborative efforts among medical specialists, computer professionals, usability experts, and domain users to maximise the potential of ICT-based interventions for the visually impaired. 

 Simões et al. (Simões et al . , 2020 ) reviewed technologies and methods for assisting BLV people with indoor navigation.
They classified these indoor positioning systems and discussed the advantages and disadvantages of each approach. 

 The review of Kuriakose et al. (Kuriakose et al . , 2020 ) focused on studies into multi-modal navigation for BLV people.
They provide a comprehensive review of the different forms of devices and their modalities.
In each of the studies, they also identified if the system was evaluated with BLV users. 

 In their systematic mapping review of 105 papers, Valipoor and Antonio (Valipoor and de Antonio, 2022 ) primarily centred their investigation on the object recognition, obstacle detection and depth detection aspects of assistive solutions.
The review highlighted that recent advances in computer vision hold the potential to revolutionise the creation of advanced and high-quality assistive technologies for BLV users. 

 However, none of these surveys directly considered the needs of the BLV community. 

 User requirements: 
 
 Only a small number of papers have explicitly examined the requirements of BLV users.
In 2001, Duckett and Pratt (Duckett and Pratt, 2001 ) conducted a study to identify the higher-level research topics deemed important by BLV participants. Understanding the environment was one of the main topics identified.
However, this study was conducted before the widespread adoption of smartphones and mobile devices and did not specifically consider AI-based smart devices.

 Tapu et al. (Tapu et al . , 2020 ) investigated the perception of wearable assistive devices by the BLV community.
They reviewed and categorised these devices into sensor based and camera based devices.
The authors then conducted consultations with visually impaired individuals, researchers, and software developers to identify a set of features that a wearable assistive device must possess to gain acceptance within the BLV community.
Processing speed, portability, robustness and friendliness were some of them.
They then scored the devices in the review with these features and found that none of them satisfied all the criteria. 

 In 2020, Plikynas et al. (Plikynas et al . , 2020 ) explored requirements for indoor navigation systems.
They looked into 27 papers with different forms of hardware and sensors and proposed directions for future developments.
During their interview stage, they asked blind participants about the five biggest problems when orientating/navigating indoors.
Finding room numbers, finding elevators and reading numbers at the bank were the top three problems. 

 The most relevant study is that of Golubova et al. (Golubova et al . , 2021 ) .
They identified tasks that BLV participants would like a smart sight aid to perform.
They did by asking the participants to wear recording glasses that can be turned on to capture a moment where they would use a ‘perfect sight aid‘.
Reading package labels, reading signs, reading print on TV and identifying medicine were some of the most reported situations.
One insight from the study was that many participants prefer devices that can perform a spontaneous task over a device that they have to wear for long hours.
A limitation of the study was that it implicitly focused on HMD devices and did not explore participant preferences for smart devices or ways of interacting with these devices. 

 To date we see that there has been no comparison between the tasks and smart devices that researchers have focused on and the needs of BLV people.
Furthermore, apart from  (Golubova et al . , 2021 ) there has not been a general investigation into the tasks that BLV people would like smart devices to perform, and no investigation into the type of smart devices they prefer and the kind of interaction they would like.
These are the issues that we address in this paper. 

 3. Study 1 - Scoping Review 
 
 The first step in our investigation was a literature review to ascertain the various tasks and smart devices that researchers have focused on.
As part of this review we also examined the extent to which BLV participants were involved in the research.
Given our goal of exploring and mapping the broader topic of smart assistive devices based on technology, devices, interactions, and involvement of BLV individuals, we opted to conduct a scoping review.
As outlined by Munn et al. (Munn et al . , 2018 ) , scoping reviews are particularly well-suited for examining how research is conducted on a specific topic and identifying and analysing gaps in the knowledge base, and identifying the types of available evidence in a given field. 

 3.1. Literature Search and Review Methodology 
 
 We captured papers from four databases: Google Scholar, Scopus, Web of Science, and PubMed.
Search was based on keywords capturing three criteria: Technology, Visual Impairment, and high level Task.
The top table of Table  2 shows the keywords: keywords in the same column were combined with ”OR” and the columns combined with an ”AND” operator during the search process. 

 Our initial search was conducted in July 2022. We restricted our search to the past two and a half years, specifically from 2020 to July 15th, 2022.
There were two reasons for this: First, the majority of AI-based smart device research has been carried out in recent years. Second,the sheer size of the literature–we initially looked at the last five years and found over 30,000 papers. 

 Initial search: 
 
 Our initial search with the keywords from the upper table of Table  2 with Google Scholar, found 4,992 papers, and that with Scopus, Web of Science, and PubMed, resulted in 264 papers.
After applying a title and abstract screening process based on the exclusion criteria outlined in Table 2 , we narrowed down the results to 454 papers from Google Scholar and 194 papers from the other databases. Merging and removal of duplicates, resulted in 587 papers for full-text review.
During this review process, we excluded additional papers that did not meet our exclusion criteria, resulting in a final set of 477 papers.
Selection of papers were primarily carried out by a single researcher but in consultation with other members of the research team when unclear. 

 Followup search: 
 
 After conducting the initial search we discovered a limitation in Google Scholar’s ability to handle wildcard queries within quoted multi-word queries.
Unlike other databases, Google Scholar appears to interprete the symbol ‘*’ as a wildcard word within multi-word queries, rather than as a wildcard completion.
This means that, for example, that a search for ”image enhanc*” will match ”image enhance by” but only match ”image enhancing” inconsistently on Google Scholar, while this term will consistently match ”image enhancement” on the other databases. 

 As a solution, we expanded each multi-word-wildcard query (bolded text in Table 2 ) into separate multi-word keywords, as shown in the Google Scholar section of Table 2 and repeated the Google Scholar search. 

 We identified 11,034 new papers that were not in the initial search.
Since the second search was conducted after July 15, 2022, we also removed papers that were published after that date to ensure consistency between the two groups.
Filtering by the date and applying the title and abstract screening resulted in 214 papers.
After merging the new papers with the previous results, we found an additional 140 papers, bringing the total number of extracted papers from 477 to 617. 

 Furthermore, it came to our attention that the term ”smart glasses” was inadvertently omitted as a specific keyword. To rectify this, a third search was conducted, resulting in the inclusion of 29 additional papers, bringing the total count from 617 to 646. 

 3.2. Data Extraction 
 
 The following information was recorded for each paper. 

 • 
 
 Task: The low-level task(s) the research was designed to support. 

 • 
 
 Device: Type of smart device used in the research. 

 • 
 
 Interaction model: The high-level interaction model(s) from the user’s perspective. We examined whether the device enhanced images for the user (Image Enhancement), identified and described the user’s surroundings (Scene and Object Description), found or located objects requested by the user (Detection and Recognition of User-Requested Objects), or engaged in conversation with the user (Question Answering). 

 • 
 
 Involvement of BLV participants: We determined whether BLV participants were involved or not. And, if they were, whether this was during the design phase, the evaluation phase, or both phases. 

 3.3. Results 
 
 Tasks 
 
 Low-level tasks were extracted from the research studies.
Two researchers went through these and combined tasks if they were closely related.
For example, a study was detecting fruits and vegetables and another detecting seafood, were combined into Food Recognition.
It should be noted that some tasks encompass other more specific tasks. For instance, Drug Pill Detection and Indoor Sign Detection utilise Text Recognition, but were classified as distinct tasks because they involved additional classification steps to provide more comprehensive output to the users, rather than simply reading text. 

 After finishing the data extraction, two of the researchers categorised these low-level tasks into higher-level groups.
The initial grouping was informed by the Australian Assistive Products for Persons with Disability Classification and Terminology (aus, 2015 ) , which is based on the WHO ISO Assistive Technology Standards and Guidelines (iso, 2011 ) .
We introduced a new category called ”Assistive products for cultural and sports activities” as we felt that tasks in this category did not readily fit into the other categories.
The low-level tasks, their description and high-level groups are shown in Table 5 (in the Appendix). 

 Once the tasks were determined we counted the number of papers addressing each task.
The counts are summarised in Figure 1 .
It is worth noting that some papers addressed multiple tasks, such as Currency Recognition and Face Detection.
Therefore, the total number of papers for all high-level categories adds up to more than 646 papers. 

 Our count revealed that the category of assistive products for handling objects and devices had the highest number of papers, accounting for 42.7% of the studies, followed by assistive products for personal mobility (40.4%), and communication and information (32.2%).
The Object Detection Localization task had the highest number of papers.
The majority of these studies we reviewed were trained on well-known datasets such as COCO (Lin et al . , 2014 ) and ImageNet (Deng et al . , 2009 ) , which include hundreds of object classes.
As a result, these devices detect and share all objects from their training dataset, regardless of their relevance to the user. 

 Figure 1 . Breakdown of the counts of papers identified for each types of tasks. Note the height of each sub-box is only indicative of the number of papers in that category. 
 \Description 

 This figure is an Icicle Plot that shows the counts of papers that were identified for each task group in the review, categorised by the high-level groups. The trends are described in the 4th paragraph Section 3.3 Results. Refer to Figure1.csv in supplementary material for all the data. 

 Device 
 
 We collated a list of smart devices used in the studies and counted the number of papers that used each device.
In cases where smart devices ran on Raspberry Pi or similar computing devices but did not specify the wearable location, we categorised it as a body-mounted device.
Additionally, we classified smart-glasses and devices with head-mounted cameras as head-mounted devices.
It is worth noting that some studies may fall under more than one category, such as a head-mounted device that utilises a smartphone app for voice input.
In such cases, the study is counted for both wearables. 

 Figure 2 depicts the number of studies conducted for each type of wearable device.
We observed 24 distinct types of devices in our review, with only 9 of them having at least 10 studies.
The majority of studies employed smartphones as the primary device. This can be attributed to the fact that smartphones have all three essential components (i.e., camera, microphone, and computing unit) integrated into a single device as identified by Plikynas et al. (Plikynas et al . , 2020 ) as well.
Additionally, the widespread adoption of smartphone software development kits (SDKs) may have played a role in their popularity compared to more specialised tools required for other wearables. 

 Figure 2 . Count of papers identified for the types of devices 
 \Description 

 This figure shows two horizontal bar charts next to each other with titles: Apparel-based Devices and Stand-alone Devices. It shows the count of papers in the review for each type of wearable device.For apparel-based devices, the highest to lowest are: Body-mounted Device 187,Head-mounted Device 157,Chest-mounted Device 14,Cap 13,Shoes 10,Glove 10,Belt 7,Hand-worn Device 6,Finger-worn Device 3,Smart Watch 2,Ankle-Worn Device 2,Wrist-worn Device 2, Robotic Arm 1,Contact lens 1, Hoodie 1, Necklace 1. For stand-alone devices, the highest to lowest are: Smartphone 215,Cane 39,Hand-held Device 16,Backpack 4,Robot 4,Smart Camera 1,Walker 1,Suitcase 1 

 Figure 3 . Count of papers identified for each interaction model 
 \Description 

 This figure shows a horizontal bar chart with the count of papers identified for each of the interaction models. The interaction models are sorted from the highest to lowest as follows: Scene and Object Description 548,Image enhancement 47, Detection Recognition of user requested objects 39,Question Answering 13 

 Interaction model 
 
 The majority of studies (85%) focused on Scene and Object Description, while Question and Answering received the least attention (as shown in Figure 3 ).
This could be attributed to two reasons.
Firstly, wearable devices have limited computing power, which poses a challenge for developing on-device Question and Answering systems.
Secondly, many studies were focused on the quantitative performance of the computer vision algorithms rather than user interaction. 

 Involvement of BLV participants 
 
 After collating the results, our analysis of the reviewed papers revealed that the BLV participants were not involved in the majority (82%) of the studies and only 105 out of the 646 reviewed had BLV participants–see Figure 4 .
We further examined the involvement of BLV participants at different stages of the studies.
We found that in the majority of papers, BLV involvement was restricted to evaluation and only 38 papers out of the 646 reviewed involved BLV participants in the design, ideation, or requirement gathering stage. 

 Figure 4 . Type of participant involvement in research studies and the stages of involvement 
 \Description 

 This figure shows two horizontal bar charts with the second one extending from the last row (‘BLV participants”) in the first chart. The types of participants are listed as follows: Sighted Participants 0.64%,Blindfolded Sighted Participants 1.24%,No BLV Participants 82%,BLV Participants 16%.For the studies with BLV participants, the values are sorted from highest to lowest as follows: Evaluation 10.3%, Both 3.4%, Design 2.4% 

 4. Study 2 - Needs of People Who are Blind or have Low-Vision (BLV) 
 
 The second step in our research was to conduct semi-structured interviews with BLV participants to ascertain what they thought were the most useful tasks that smart devices could be used for.
As part of this we asked about preferred interaction models and devices as well as asking them to rank the importance of the tasks that had been studied by researchers. 

 4.1. Participants 
 
 We conducted semi-structured interviews with 24 participants who either have low-vision or are blind.
These lasted approximately one hour and participants were compensated with a $50AUD gift card for their time.
Of the 24 participants, 10 had low-vision and 14 were blind, with varying characteristics across age groups and age of onset.
Table 4 (in the Appendix) summarises the demographic details of the participants, including age, level of vision, age of onset, and level of tech adoption. 

 4.2. Procedure 
 
 The interview had 5 parts. 

 Demographic information: 
 
 At the beginning of each interview, a series of general questions were asked to ascertain the participants’ demographic information and visual condition.
Additionally, participants were requested to rank their level of technology adoption, which was categorised according to the summary provided by (Beal et al . , 1957 ) as shown in Table 3 (in the Appendix). 

 Current technology use: 
 
 Next, we asked about the types of devices participants currently utilise in their daily routines.
If a participant mentioned using a smartphone or tablet, we further inquired about the applications they used on these devices. 

 Then we asked participants whether they have utilised any services that provide sighted assistance through video conferencing, such as AIRA (air, 2023 ) and Be My Eyes (bem, 2023a ) .
For those who have used such services, we followed up with questions to identify the tasks for which they utilised these services.
Our objective was to identify tasks for which BLV individuals currently require sighted assistance, with the goal of determining if smart devices could potentially assist with these tasks.
Lastly, we inquired whether any of the participants had any concerns regarding these services. 

 Most useful tasks: 
 
 Prior to asking participants to list the tasks they felt would be the most useful, we provided them with a brief description of the types of smart devices, including smartphones, head-mounted devices, and chest-mounted devices.
Additionally, we explained how artificial intelligence and machine learning has advanced in terms of mimicking human intelligence and how it can be incorporated into these devices.
This was done to ensure that the participants had a general understanding of what constitutes a smart device.
We carefully refrained from sharing any details that we identified from the review about the different tasks that these devices could perform, as we first sought to obtain the participants’ perspective before presenting our findings from the review. 

 Next, we asked participants to list their top five tasks that they would like to accomplish using a smart device, followed by their suggestion for the type of smart device that would be best suited to the task. 

 In order to understand the two forms of modalities, i.e., human-computer (input) and computer-human (output) (Mittal and Mittal, 2011 ) , we asked participants how they would prefer to interact with the device, including input methods such as voice, tactile buttons, and touch screen, and how they would prefer the device to provide information to them through output methods such as audio, visual or vibrations. 

 Ranking of researcher tasks: 
 
 After this, participants were asked to rank the various tasks that researchers had focused on, as described in Table 5 .
To keep the interview to around one hour we could not ask each participant about all of the tasks. Instead we divided the participants into four groups, with each group ranking 18 tasks.
We selectively assigned participants to each group to balance out the representation of low-vision and blind participants, ensuring that each group had at least two low-vision participants.
To prevent any potential biases that may arise from the order in which the 18 tasks were presented to the participants during the interview, we randomised the task order for each individual. 

 While reviewing each task, the participants were asked to rank its importance based on its usefulness, ranging from ”not useful”, ”slightly useful”, ”very useful”, to ”invaluable.”
Following this, they were asked a few questions to understand why the task was significant as the reason might differ from the researchers’ original intention.
Finally, they were requested to choose the ‘best’ type of smart device that would fulfil the task. 

 After the completion of the task ranking process, we provided the participants with an opportunity to re-evaluate their initial top five tasks to ensure that they had the chance to adjust their priorities based on the insights they gained from the ranking process. 

 Overall perception of smart devices: 
 
 Following this, we asked the participants to rank the overall usefulness of smart assistive devices on the same scale as before, in order to gain a better understanding of their general perception of these devices.
Lastly, we followed up with a question to discuss any concerns they may have regarding the development of smart devices for BLV individuals. 

 4.3. Results 
 
 Current technology use: 
 
 All participants currently use a smart phone.
This is consistent with Plikynas et al. (Plikynas et al . , 2020 ) , where they identified smartphones to be the most common electronic travelling aid.
OrCam (3), Envision glasses (2), BuzzClip (1), StrapTech (1), MiniGuide (1) and Trekker Breeze (1) were some of the other devices used. Note that the number in () is the number of participants using the device.
We also found that Seeing AI (14), Google/Apple Maps (13), Soundscape (8), Be My Eyes (7) and Envision (6) were the most commonly used smartphone applications. 

 Out of the 16 participants who have used video conferencing services for sighted assistance, we identified the most frequently requested tasks.
Reading text was the most commonly requested task by both blind and low-vision participants with 10 participants requesting it.
Other frequently requested tasks included colour detection, website accessibility, navigating new environments, cleaning broken glass, framing and taking photographs, finding personal items, and assessing their physical presentation. 

 The results also revealed that our blind participants use these services more than low-vision participants (11 out of 14 blind participants use these services compared to 5 out of 10 LV participants).
Out of the participants who used these services the blind participants tended to favour using AIRA over Be My Eyes, while low-vision participants preferred Be My Eyes over AIRA.
This could be explained by the fact that low-vision individuals may rely on their limited vision to assist them with tasks, and the crowd-sourced support workers used by Be My Eyes may be sufficient for their needs.
In contrast, blind individuals may require more specialised assistance and may therefore prefer the professionally trained staff provided by AIRA. 

 Finally, the majority of participants expressed positive feedback regarding the sighted assistance services, appreciating their convenience and professionalism, particularly when they lacked physical assistance.
Only two participants raised concerns regarding issues such as privacy, connectivity, and high costs. 

 Most useful tasks: 
 
 We compiled the responses of participants regarding the top 3-5 most preferred tasks and mapped them to the lowest level task classification shown in Table 5 .
For instance, one participant mentioned ”something that can identify people” which was then mapped to Face Detection. 

 The most preferred task was Text Recognition, which was indicated by 15 out of the 20 participants, as demonstrated in Figure 5 .
Many participants reported that when they are outdoors, they often have to rely on others to read text for them, indicating the need for a reliable smart device to perform this task.
The results of our study align with the findings of Golubova et al. (Golubova et al . , 2021 ) , who reported that 18 out of their 32 participants identified reading any type of text as the most commonly named activity of importance.
This finding also aligns with the results described in Section 4.3 , where reading text was found to be the most requested task from video conferencing services. 

 We also identified that Obstacle Detection had the highest number of first preferences, with six participants selecting it.
One participant, P9, reported that Obstacle Detection while navigating was the most challenging and stressful task for them.
Therefore, a smart device that could aid in this area would greatly enhance their independence. 

 Figure 5 highlights several tasks in bold, including Empty Seat Detection, Sorting Items and Checking Appearance, that were not included in the list of tasks from the review.
We also included Navigation and Guidance as a separate task though it does overlap with Safe Path Navigation.
This was primarily due to participants mentioning the need for Night Time Navigation and Guidance, which was not fully captured under Safe Path Detection.
It is also because Navigation and Guidance is a higher-level task that combines several low-level tasks, such as Shop Recognition, Building Door Detection, and Safe Path Detection, to provide seamless interaction with the user, as demonstrated by (Kayukawa et al . , 2020 ) . 

 We could not identify differences in the choice of top five tasks between the blind and low-vision participants. 

 Figure 5 . Participants’ Five Most Useful Tasks Ranked by Order of Preference; The identified tasks are presented in order from most to least preferred, with tasks not listed in our review task list indicated in bold font with a [+] symbol next to them. 
 \Description 

 This figure shows a stacked horizontal bar chart, with each segment showcasing the preference type. The trends of the plots are described in the second paragraph of the Most useful task subsection in Section 4.3 Results. Refer to Figure5.csv in supplementary material for all the data. 

 Participant’s preferred interaction mode: 
 
 Figure 6 shows the different input and output modalities identified by the participants. It gives the number of participants that stated this modality for at least one of their tasks.
In terms of preferred modes of interaction, 23 out of the 24 participants expressed a preference for voice input for at least one of their top tasks.
This finding is also reflected in (Hong et al . , 2020 ) where they compare the use of voice input by blind participants over sighted participants and found that blind individuals use voice input more frequently.
 (Azenkot and Lee, 2013 ) also found that 6 out of 8 blind participants preferred voice input over on-screen keyboard on mobile devices. 

 Participants also noted that, in the case of a smart glass device (head-mounted), voice input would be significantly more convenient for issuing queries, whereas a handheld device might be better suited to button-based input.
Other popular input modalities included, ‘user only needs to localise’ and ‘context-triggered automatic input’ and button input.
P4 described their ideal face-detection smart glass as having the capability to automatically track individuals they interacted with, capturing their names and periodically reminding the user when a known or unknown person was addressing them. 

 All participants indicated a preference for speech output as the primary means of interaction for at least one of their top tasks.
Four participants expressed a preference for non-speech modalities such as beeps and tones, as well as vibration, due to concerns that speech output might interfere with their reliance on surrounding environment sounds.
This finding aligns with the findings of (Plikynas et al . , 2020 ) who found that participants did not want a device that would block their hearing when navigating indoor. However a factor impacting on the use of speech output is the need to avoid overwhelming the user.
In particular, one participant (P14) emphasised the importance of the device being clear and concise when communicating with the user, as an overly verbose device could be overwhelming and interfere with task performance. 

 Figure 6 . Interaction modes identified in the interview with the number of participants that preferred it for at least one of their top five tasks 
 \Description 

 This figure shows two horizontal bar charts next to each other with titles: Input Modality and Output Modality. For Input Modality, the highest to lowest are: Voice 23,Button 11,User only needs to localise or point 10,Context-triggered automatic input 8,Touch gestures 4, Smartphone control 2,Keyboard entry 1. For Output Modality, the highest to lowest are: Speech (Audio with a computer generated voice) 24,Non-speech (beeps and tones) 12,Vibrations or Tactile 6, Visual 3,Kinaesthetic 2,Braile 1 

 Comparing between the blind and low-vision groups, for input modalities, 7 blind participants showed a preference for the ‘user only needing to localise‘, while only 3 low-vision participants exhibited this preference.
In terms of output modalities, 3 low-vision participants preferred the visual modality, whereas (as one might expect) none of the blind participants did so. 

 Participant’s preferred device: 
 
 As depicted in column B in Figure 10 , the top three wearable types preferred by the participants are head-mounted devices, smartphones, and hand-held devices.
It is important to note that during the study, participants utilised the terms ”hand-held devices” and ”smartphones” interchangeably, where as certain participants explicitly referred smartphone applications.
The participants highlighted numerous advantages of using smart glasses (head-mounted devices) over smartphones and hand-held devices.
A key advantage of smart glasses is that they follow the natural gaze of the user’s eyes and head, which eliminates the need for awkward pointing or manoeuvring to capture what is in front of them, as noted by P22: 
 
 ”Generally people are looking at what they are doing, so it’s natural to hold something up to the face, to look at it and feel it, so there by having it there [head-mounted], having it hands free, having not to worry about holding something.” 

 Smart glasses also offer an additional benefit over hand-held devices in that they can be used without requiring the use of both hands.
This is especially advantageous for guide dog users who may already be using one hand to hold the guide dog.
P1 noted that: 
 
 I have a guide dog that I’m out and about with, so that means that one of my hands is always busy with the dog. 

 Finally, our comparison between the blind and low-vision group found no discernible preference in the type of device for their top five tasks. 

 Figure 7 . Ranking of tasks identified in the review based on participants’ score of usefulness, ranging from ”Not Useful,” ”Slightly Useful,” ”Very Useful,” to ”Invaluable”. Each category was assigned a score from 1 to 4 and the tasks are then sorted based on the total score. The figure is presented from left to right and top to bottom. 
 \Description 

 This figure shows a stacked horizontal bar chart, with each segment showcasing the usefulness score shared by the participants. The trends of the plots are described in the first paragraph of the Ranking of researcher tasks subsection in Section 4.3 Results. Refer to Figure7.csv in supplementary material for all the data. 

 Ranking of researcher tasks: 
 
 Figure 7 shows the ranking assigned by participants to the tasks identified in the survey.
Image Captioning, Personal Object Recognition, Safe Path Detection and Fill Paper Forms all received the same highest score.
Several participants also expressed the need for a smart device that could assist them in filling out paper forms, as they currently have no alternative but to rely on a sighted person.
One participant, P4, emphasised the importance of accurate Image Captioning, as it renders them unable to comprehend the content without it. 

 Appliance Recognition and Scene Simplification were ranked as the lowest in terms of usefulness.
One reason why Appliance Recognition was not useful, as pointed out by P4, was that she sets up her living space in a way that allows her to easily identify appliances, making a smart device redundant in this regard.
P3 suggested that Scene Simplification may not be useful as he did not want to rely on a device that uses vision, given the knowledge that his vision would deteriorate over time. 

 In the course of our interview, we made an intriguing observation regarding the tasks extracted from the paper (Abirami et al . , 2020 ) , which aimed at developing a system for detecting Animal Waste or Waste to avoid stepping on it.
Upon being asked during the interviews, two out of six participants stated that their primary use for the device would be to locate the animal waste left by their guide dog.
This is a significant consideration, as visually impaired individuals face challenges in picking up after their guide dogs.
They explained that if the dog defecates outside, they may have no choice but to leave the waste as they are unable to locate it.
This suggests that development of a smart device or smartphone application that can detect guide dog waste would greatly benefit guide dog users. 

 Figure 8 . Mean difference of usefulness score of tasks between the blind and low-vision groups. 
 \Description 

 This figure shows a single column heat map. The colour transition from blue at the top and red at the bottom. The blue at the top indicates the tasks preferred more by the low-vision participants and the red at the bottom indicated the tasks preferred more by the blind participants. The trends of the plots are described in the fourth paragraph of the Ranking of researcher tasks subsection in Section 4.3 Results. Refer to Figure8.csv in supplementary material for all the data. 

 We conducted an analysis to measure if low-vision and blind participants had different task rankings.
Figure 8 presents the mean difference in scores assigned by the two groups.
Our findings indicated that low-vision participants assigned greater importance to Overlays and Scene-Segmentation, whereas blind participants favoured Barcode QR Code Reader and Color Detection.
The explanation of Overlays and Scene-Segmentation is straightforward for low-vision participants as they can depend on the visual mode of interactions.
Blind participants mentioned that a device capable of identifying and reading Barcode and QR codes would be more useful as they are not able to locate them.
All four blind participants mentioned that Color Detection is invaluable (3) or very useful (1) especially if it was accurate even under different lighting conditions, compared to the two low-vision participants mentioning it will only be slightly useful.
Additionally, our analysis identified that Text Recognition tasks exhibited no significant difference between the two user groups.
This, in conjunction with the results from the previous section regarding the participants preferred tasks, highlights the necessity for accurate text recognition devices regard of the visual condition.
However, it is important to note that the sample size for this comparison was extremely limited, with only six participants ranking each task and only 2-3 of them being low-vision participants. 

 Based on the ‘best’ type of device selected by the participants for each task, we calculated the count of all the wearables as shown in Column C in Figure 10 .
One thing to note is, participants were allowed to select more than one ‘best’ wearable for each task.
For example, one participant gave hand-held device and smartphone for Color detection.
Based on this, head-mounted devices, smartphones, and hand-held devices were the top three device types for each of the tasks.
We also found no discernible preference in the type of device between the blind and low-vision participants. 

 Finally, six out of the 24 participants chose to update their top five list when given the opportunity to do so after ranking the tasks. 

 Overall perception of smart devices: 
 
 All participants expressed that they considered computer vision based smart devices to be highly valuable for their future needs.
P22 summarised this clearly: 
 
 ”Because of the independence they offer a person who is blind or visually impaired to act as normally as possible. In external environment, it build somebody’s confidence and sense of well being. In a home environment, it would mean not relying on others all the time to assist with visual tasks and it would increase safety and save alot of time.” 

 Subsequently, we inquired whether participants had any concerns or design considerations that the research community should take into account while creating AI-enabled smart devices.
Of the 24 participants, 16 cited ease of use as their top concern, encompassing factors such as longer battery life, reliability, and portability.
Another 10 participants emphasised the need for smart devices to be subtle and visually appealing.
As P5 encapsulated this sentiment: 
 
 Nobody wants to walk around in Big Ski Goggles, because you feel conspicuous, and everybody’s staring at you for a different reason, not just for being blind, because you’re in these great big, ugly glasses. 
 
 The majority of these current limitations of smart devices are due to hardware constraints, which were discussed in previous studies (Golubova et al . , 2021 ) .
However, it is reasonable to anticipate that these limitations will be addressed as the technology evolves, resulting in devices that are both smaller in size and more powerful. 

 5. Comparison Discussion 
 
 In this section we contrast the results of the two studies and also discuss the implications for smart device research and adoption. 

 5.1. Which tasks should researchers explore? 

 We were interested to see the alignment between researcher focus on tasks as revealed by the number of papers addressing the task in Study 1 and the BLV participants’ ranking of the importance of the task found in Study 2. We first computed the correlation between the two. This was r (70) = .14, p =.24. indicating a weak positive correlation. 

 Figure 9 . Ranking of various tasks based on the number of papers in the review [Review rank] and interview preference [Interview rank]. Tasks that were important to the participants, but were not the focus of the researchers are highlighted in blue with a [+] symbol next to them and tasks that were deemed unimportant by the participants, but were the focus of the researchers are highlighted in red with a [-] symbol next to them. 
 \Description 

 This figure shows a graph that shows the distance between the review rank and interview rank for each task. The two ranks are plotted on a horizontal axis and connected with a line. The tasks are sorted by the lowest to highest interview rank. Refer to Figure9.csv in supplementary material for all the data. 

 We then investigated the differences for each task. The tasks identified in Study 1 were ranked based on the count of studies identified for each task (named ”Review Rank” ).
In Study 2, tasks were ranked based on the perceived usefulness of the tasks by the participants (named ”Interview Rank” ). We scaled and plotted these two rankings in Figure 9 to explore differences in the ranking. This reveals: 

 • 
 
 Tasks that were important to the participants, but were not the focus of the researchers (highlighted in Blue with a [+] symbol) 

 • 
 
 Tasks that were deemed unimportant by the participants, but were the focus of the researchers (highlighted in Red with a [-] symbol) 

 Tasks that were important to the participants, but were not the focus of the researchers: 
 
 Although filling paper forms had the lowest number of studies, we found that all six participants who ranked it, gave a higher usefulness score (Invaluable (5 participants) and Very Useful (1 participant)).
In fact, only one group of researchers have worked on the filling paper forms task, as reported in (Billah et al . , 2018 ; Feiz et al . , 2019 , 2021 ) .
Interestingly, these authors found that all of their participants stated they would use such a device in their everyday life.
Considering our findings, we suggest researchers should be prioritising tasks that have been highlighted in blue, such as Aerial Obstacle Detection, Shop Recognition, and Safe Navigation Space Detection. 

 Although we have highlighted few specific tasks based on the existing research, we acknowledge that other tasks may also be significant, as indicated by the bolded text in Figure 5 .
Participants in our study identified tasks such as Empty Seat Detection, Sorting Items, and Checking Appearance as important.
Additionally, researchers can also explore tasks for which BLV users currently rely on sighted assistance, as described in Section 4.3 .
Therefore, we suggest that researchers consider both existing research and participant feedback when identifying significant tasks for smart devices aimed at aiding the BLV community. 

 Tasks that were deemed unimportant by the participants, but were the focus of the researchers: 
 
 Tasks such as Terrain Detection, Currency Detection and Pedestrian Detection were among the most extensively studied in the literature.
However, participants reported that they did not consider these tasks to be important.
For instance for Terrain Detection, P7 stated that they could identify terrain by the sensation under their feet, while P10 noted that others would warn them about slippery conditions.
For Pedestrian Detection, participants who used guide dogs indicated that the dogs are good at avoiding collisions, while others reported that they could sense when someone was approaching through hearing or tactile cues.
Participant P24 offered additional insight into this: 
 
 ”I think as a cane user that would be useful, […] because I’m a dog user, it would actually be not so useful because the the dog detect those people and walks around them, or people see you coming, and they might move out of the way.” 
 
 It is also important that these devices needs to gain the trust of the BLV community as described by (Plikynas et al . , 2020 ) .
So smart devices should be designed to work in tandem with the currently established orientation and mobility standards, particularly as these technologies continue to evolve and mature. 

 Our analysis also revealed that Currency Detection exhibited the greatest disparity between the literature and the perceptions of