# FULL TEXT — From Representation to Mediation: A New Agenda for Conceptual Modeling Research in A Digital World

https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.18743v1

THEORY & REVIEW

FROM REPRESENTATION TO MEDIATION: A NEW
AGENDA FOR CONCEPTUAL MODELING
RESEARCH IN A DIGITAL WORLD1
Jan Recker
Faculty of Management, Economics, and Social Sciences, University of Cologne,
Albertus-Magnus-Platz, 50923 Köln, GERMANY {jan.recker@wiso.uni-koeln.de}

Roman Lukyanenko
Department of Information Technologies, HEC Montréal, 3000 Chemin de la Côte-Sainte-Catherine,
Montréal, QC, H3T 2A7 CANADA {roman.lukyanenko@hec.ca}

Mohammad Jabbari
School of Information Systems, Queensland University of Technology, 2 George Street,
Brisbane, QLD 4000 AUSTRALIA {m.jabbarisabegh@qut.edu.au}

Binny M. Samuel
Lindner College of Business, University of Cincinnati, 2906 Woodside Drive,
Cincinnati, OH 45221 U.S.A. {samuelby@uc.edu}

Arturo Castellanos
Zicklin School of Business, Baruch College, City University of New York, 55 Lexington Avenue,
New York, NY 10010 U.S.A. {Arturo.Castellanos@baruch.cuny.edu}

The role of information systems (IS) as representations of real-world systems is changing in an increasingly
digitalized world, suggesting that conceptual modeling is losing its relevance to the IS field. We argue the
opposite: Conceptual modeling research is more relevant to the IS field than ever, but it requires an update
with new theory. We develop a new theoretical framework of conceptual modeling that delivers a fundamental
shift in the assumptions that govern research in this area. This move can make traditional knowledge about
conceptual modeling consistent with the emerging requirements of a digital world. Our framework draws
attention to the role of conceptual modeling scripts as mediators between physical and digital realities. We
identify new research questions about grammars, methods, scripts, agents, and contexts that are situated in
intertwined physical and digital realities. We discuss several implications for conceptual modeling scholarship
that relate to the necessity of developing new methods and grammars for conceptual modeling, broadening the
methodological array of conceptual modeling scholarship, and considering new dependent variables.
1

Keywords: Conceptual modeling, mediation, digital technology, ontological reversal, digital objects,
representation

1

Jason Thatcher was the accepting senior editor for this paper. Chuan Hoo Tan served as the associate editor.

©2021. The Authors. Published by the Management Information Systems Research Center at the University of Minnesota. This is an open access article under
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution CC BY License, which permits use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work
is properly cited.

DOI: 10.25300/MISQ/2021/16027

MIS Quarterly Vol. 45 No. 1 pp. 269-300/March 2021

269

Recker et al./From Representation to Mediation

Introduction
Nick Carr’s (2003) article “IT Doesn’t Matter” appears as a
remnant from long-forgotten times. The information systems
(IS) world has changed considerably since those words were
written. Technological developments in software and hardware have made it possible to infuse digital technologies into
a wide range of traditional economic goods, from airplanes to
cars, from kitchen scales to sound systems and toothbrushes
(Faulkner and Runde 2019; Yoo 2010). Digital technologies
have changed the nature and structure of economic goods
(Porter and Heppelmann 2014), enabled radically new business processes such as crowd-based innovations (e.g., Bayus
2013), spawned novel business models such as data-driven
businesses (e.g., Parmar et al. 2014), and even transformed
entire industries, including transport, hospitality, and finance
(e.g., Iansiti and Lakhani 2014; Porter and Heppelmann
2014). In a world that abounds with digital technologies,
modern IS no longer only represent reality (Burton-Jones et
al. 2017; Recker et al. 2019) but increasingly shape it (Alaimo
and Kallinikos 2017; Baskerville et al. 2020).
This fundamental shift in the role of IS has profound implications for conceptual modeling (CM), that is, the development and use of representations to capture the features of a
real-world domain an IS is intended to support (Mylopoulos
1992; Wand and Weber 2002). CM has been a core IS
research area since the field’s formative years (Bubenko
1979; Weber 1987) and is still being actively pursued (e.g.,
Burton-Jones et al. 2017; Rai 2017).
CM research has developed important insights based on
several assumptions that have guided it to this point, but these
assumptions are challenged by the current IS landscape:
•

•

•

270

Movements like agile development (Fowler and Highsmith 2001) and DevOps (Wiedemann et al. 2019) alter
modeling and documentation practices during systems
analysis and design, which has traditionally been a key
area where CM is used.
Technological developments like NoSQL databases,
machine learning, and business analytics challenge the
form, function, and utility of relational databases (Storey
and Song 2017), which have traditionally been a key IS
component designed through CM.
The ongoing infusion of digital technologies into economic goods and everyday artifacts blurs the boundaries
among the surface, physical, and deep structures of IS.
Traditionally, a main focus of CM was on the deep
structure meaning.

MIS Quarterly Vol. 45 No. 1/March 2021

•

•

Actions and decisions taken in a digital reality increasingly influence those in a physical reality (Baskerville et al. 2020). CM has traditionally provided
guidance for the development of digital representations
of physical reality alone.
Collective action movements like open source development (Bagozzi and Dholakia 2006), citizen science
(Levy and Germonprez 2017), and crowdsourcing
(Majchrzak and Markus 2013) increasingly involve nonspecialist users in IS development. Traditionally, only
trained IS professionals engaged in such activities.

The time is ripe to update CM theory because the assumptions
and approaches of CM scholarship increasingly underrepresent and constrain CM’s potential to support the ongoing
digitalization of reality. Therefore, we offer a new framework
for CM scholarship that is fit for the burgeoning digital world.
To develop this framework, we engage in a dialectical argument that involves looking back and forward. In looking
back, we identify and challenge historically grown field
assumptions, that is, broad sets of beliefs about central aspects
of a subject (Alvesson and Sandberg 2011), in the CM literature. In looking forward, we identify changes in the IS landscape that are relevant to CM by drawing on the emergent
body of theoretical work around the nature of digital objects
(Alaimo and Kallinikos 2017; Faulkner and Runde 2019) and
their profound implications for how IS scholarship should be
situated in a digital world (Baskerville et al. 2020; Yoo 2010).
Then we develop a new conceptualization of CM that includes
updated assumptions about the core constructs of CM scholarship, that is, scripts, grammars, methods, and context (Wand
and Weber 2002). The novel idea of our framework is that
the role of CM in a digital world is to assist both representation and shaping. We conceptualize this new role for CM
as the task of mediating the transition from—and
between—the states of physical and digital realities.2
Our new conceptualization connects past CM research to the
future and provides a new, broad theoretical platform for CM
research that illuminates new and unexplored research ques2

We use the terms physical reality and digital reality to indicate the difference between lived versus computed human experiences. Like BurtonJones et al. (2017, p. A2), we conceptualize physical reality as “the aggregation of constituent things and their properties that exist in the real world,
as perceived by someone or some group,” which includes social as well as
material things. In this understanding, the term physical reality includes not
only tangible, material objects (e.g., buildings, cars, products, technologies,
people) but also social constructions (e.g., organizations, processes, contracts, relationships) that feature in lived experiences. This understanding
is broader than Baskerville et al.’s (2020) use of the term physical, which we
interpret as being limited to material things.

Recker et al./From Representation to Mediation

tions. We outline selected research areas that lie at the intersection of physical to digital and digital to physical realities
and between digital realities. We close by discussing broad
implications for how CM scholarship could be carried out in
the future.

Background on Conceptual Modeling
Since the 1970s, IS professionals, such as business and
process analysts, systems designers, and software developers,
have used semi-formal, often graphic, representations to
analyze IS, design IS, or visualize datasets. These representations, which are commonly called conceptual models,
describe an individual’s or group’s understanding of a realworld domain and the features or phenomena in that domain
(Kung and Sølvberg 1986; Mylopoulos 1992; Wand and
Weber 2002).
Conceptual models are scripts (products of the CM process)
developed by using grammars (sets of constructs and the rules
by which to combine them) and guided by a method (procedures by which a grammar can be used) within an organizational context (the setting in which scripts are developed and
used) (Wand and Weber 2002). CM scripts can be used to
represent surface structures (facilities in an IS that allow users
to interact with the IS, such as a graphic user interface) or
physical structures (the underlying technology that is used to
operate the IS, such as a network infrastructure) (Weber 1997,
pp. 78-80). However, the main focus of CM scripts is the
deep structure of an IS, that is, its characteristics that manifest
stakeholders’ perception of the meaning of the real-world
phenomena it is intended to represent (Wand and Weber
1995, pp. 205-207).
During the early years of CM, generally the 1970s to the
1990s, many studies focused on developing modeling grammars for systems analysis and database design (Chen 1976).
In the mid-1990s, emerging practices such as business process
reengineering and object-oriented analysis and design created
another wave of CM research in which new methods and
grammars were developed, including those that focused on
object or process modeling (Scheer 1994; Vessey and Conger
1994).3 Also at that time, criticisms arose that suggested that
the fundamental concepts and underlying methods of CM

3

For the purposes of this paper, differences in modeling substance versus
behavior, form versus change, and static versus dynamic aspects of IS
domains are not relevant, as they are all forms of CM. However, differences
between these forms exist; they have been discussed elsewhere (e.g., BurtonJones and Weber 2014; Vessey and Conger 1994).

research were not clearly defined (Batra and Marakas 1995;
Wand and Weber 1995). In response to these arguments,
researchers developed and proposed frameworks to provide
a more structured approach for how CM research could be
pursued (e.g., Hirschheim et al. 1995; Lindland et al. 1994;
Topi and Ramesh 2002; Wand and Weber 2002). After
publication of these frameworks, another steady wave of CM
research emerged that largely focused on evaluating the
capabilities of existing CM grammars and scripts, rather than
building new modeling grammars or methods (Burton-Jones
et al. 2009; Recker et al. 2019).
More recently, two facets of CM scholarship have emerged:
On one hand, CM research continues to be published in the
field’s top journals, including MIS Quarterly, addressing
topics such as the CM of user-generated content for citizen
science (Lukyanenko, Parsons et al. 2019), various theoretical
bases on which to improve the quality of CM (Clarke et al.
2016), new experimental findings on CM use (Samuel et al.
2018), and new methodological procedures for CM research
(Bera et al. 2019; Lukyanenko, Parsons, et al. 2019). On the
other hand, an increasing number of critical accounts that
suggest that CM may be becoming “obsolete” (Lukyanenko
and Parsons 2013) or that fundamental CM ideas may be
“dying” (Atzeni et al. 2013; Fowler 2001) have been published. As Wand and Weber (2017, p. 1) wrote,
the topic of conceptual modeling lacks the appeal of
research on emerging technologies (because it is
deemed to be an old-technology problem) …. Thus,
young scholars, in particular, have shied away from
the topic.
We interpret this facet of CM scholarship as signaling that the
CM field is at a tipping point, and it is time to move the field
forward.

Revisiting the Assumptions Around
Conceptual Modeling in a
Digital World
Even though IS scholars have produced quality research on
CM, the topic has remained a niche area within the IS community (Burton-Jones et al. 2017; Wand and Weber 2017),
perhaps because of the somewhat narrow agenda CM
researchers have pursued so far. The focus has been on a
limited set of independent variables (e.g., ontological qualities), dependent variables (e.g., comprehension and understanding), and research methods (e.g., lab experiments).
Moreover, CM research has followed assumptions that have

MIS Quarterly Vol. 45 No. 1/March 2021

271

Recker et al./From Representation to Mediation

been largely stable and unquestioned for decades but are
increasingly inconsistent with the IS landscape.
To substantiate this assertion, we identified the most prevalent
field assumptions the CM research community has explicitly
or implicitly adopted, as evidenced by published research.
Field assumptions are broad sets of beliefs about central
aspects of a subject that are shared by CM researchers even if
they come from different schools of thought (Alvesson and
Sandberg 2011, p. 255), such as language/action (e.g.,
Beynon-Davies 2018; Eriksson et al. 2019), logic (e.g., Clarke
et al. 2013), cognition (e.g., Figl et al. 2013), or representation (e.g., Burton-Jones et al. 2017). All schools seem to
agree that CM entails building “scripts” with “grammars” that
users need to be able to “understand”; they mainly disagree on
how to guarantee “good” scripts.
Challenging field assumptions has the potential to generate
novel theory and help researchers explore and test new ideas,
which is our ambition with this paper. It is also important to
review field assumptions to ensure that research remains
relevant to practice (Hirschheim 2019). Following Alvesson
and Sandberg’s (2011) methodology, we conducted a structured, narrative literature review (Paré et al. 2015) of CM
journal papers, involving four main steps.
First, we identified a domain of literature (journals that
publish CM research). We sampled papers published in the
AIS basket of eight journals because these papers are considered to be mainstream, high-quality research in the IS field.
To ensure the robustness of our review and to accommodate
the view of CM as a niche topic, we also included papers
published in the Journal of Database Management, IEEE
Transactions on Software Engineering, and Information
Systems, which are among the leading substantive publishers
of CM studies.
Second, we performed a full-text search of all the papers in
these journals between January 2002 and October 2016. We
used keywords like “conceptual modeling,” “conceptual
model*,” “conceptual modeling grammar,” “ontology,” and
meaningful variations of these terms. As a temporal boundary
to our search, we used the publication date of the CM research
framework by Wand and Weber (2002) because it is a pathdefining paper for CM4 that introduced clear definitions of
CM concepts such as grammar, script, method, and context.

4

We conducted informal interviews at the 2017 SIGSAND symposium,
where participants largely agreed that Wand and Weber is a seminal publication that guided the development of the CM research community in IS.

272

MIS Quarterly Vol. 45 No. 1/March 2021

We examined each paper’s title and abstract to exclude papers
that were not substantively CM research. Most of the papers
we excluded used “conceptual model” to refer to a theory or
research framework. This process reduced the total number
of CM papers in our sample to 237. We reviewed these
papers to confirm their relevance to our study and excluded
papers that defined conceptual models as programs or codes
(e.g., Krishnan et al. 2004) or used CM concepts to define
other aspects of IS, such as the effective use of IS (e.g.,
Burton-Jones and Grange 2013). This process left us with
197 papers for our analysis (Table 1).
Third, we developed a coding scheme, shown in Appendix A,
which evolved in multiple iterations over the course of our
research. For example, we developed an “assumptions”
dimension once we had decided on the focus of our review.
Fourth, we categorized all papers through an inter-coder process. One author coded all 197 papers while a second author
independently coded a random subset of 30 percent (59
papers). The inter-rater reliability scores between the two
coders were 91 percent for the raw agreement score and 81
percent for Cohen’s Kappa score. The two authors then
discussed disagreements, updated the coding criteria and
instructions, and independently revised the coding over two
more rounds until full agreement was reached. The author
who coded all 197 papers then revised the coding of the
remaining 138 articles using the updated, agreed coding
criteria.
Our review of CM research between 2002 and 2016 is
summarized in Appendix B. Our findings demonstrate that
the IS community has contributed to the understanding of the
practice of CM. In doing so, the community has adopted a
largely shared view of the phenomenon and has broadly
pursued similar research interests, agreed on key outcome
variables, and shared an interest in a set of input factors.
Our interpretation of the community’s efforts to date is that
the knowledge production in CM research up to this point is
coined and bound by four central field assumptions. Table 2
summarizes these assumptions and lists the challenges to these
assumptions that are due to digitalization of IS reality
(Baskerville et al. 2020; Faulkner and Runde 2019; Tilson et
al. 2010; Yoo et al. 2010). With IS reality, we refer to the
totality of everything that is fundamentally or tangentially
related to IT in everyday human experiences (Baskerville et
al. 2020). This view spans the traditional activities, resources,
and assets that are involved in corporate IT use to include the
broader, non-commercial use of IT in society, that is, everything people do to sustain their daily lives that is mediated by
digital technologies (Yoo 2010). With a digital world, we
refer to the totality of the elements that compose the sur-

Recker et al./From Representation to Mediation

Table 1. Literature Search Results

Journals
Journal of the Association for Information Systems
European Journal of Information Systems
Information Systems Research
MIS Quarterly
Information Systems Journal
Journal of Strategic Information Systems
Journal of Management Information Systems
Journal of Information Technology
IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering
Journal of Database Management
Information Systems
Total

Initial
Search
Results
500
527
261
659
360
199
582
265
416
326
127
4,222

Papers Retained
after Screening
18
19
18
6
8
3
6
2
58
53
46
237

Papers
Included in
Review
18
15
9
6
5
2
1
1
54
49
37
197

Table 2. Conceptual Modeling Assumptions
Type of
Assumption
The
representation
assumption

Traditional Assumption
Scripts represent
physical reality.

Challenge to Assumption
Human experience is increasingly, at
least partially, computed.

The structure
assumption

Scripts represent the
deep structure of IS.

The agency
assumption

Scripts are produced and
consumed by humans.

IS increasingly not only represents but
also creates, shapes, and governs
physical reality.
Human experience increasingly
involves digital objects, which blur the
distinctions between physical, deep,
and surface structures of IS.
Digital objects increasingly have
material agency.

The context
assumption

CM is a professional
activity that occurs in
organizational work
settings.

IS are increasingly developed and
deployed not only in organizational
work but also in the nonwork settings of
everyday life.

roundings of daily experiences that are enabled by or embodied in digital technologies (Yoo et al. 2012). Finally,
Table 2 summarizes the updated assumptions we propose.

New Assumption
Scripts represent both physical
and digital realities, and
mediate transitions between
the two.

Scripts represent deep
structure and its couplings with
physical and/or surface
structure of digital objects.
Scripts are produced and
consumed by both human and
digital agents.
CM occurs inside and outside
of organizational work settings.

The Representation Assumption

representing properties, states, structures of, and interactions
between material and socially constructed things in the physical world alone. This finding was expected since the common
definitions of CM refer to creating graphical scripts to
represent a real-world domain that an IS supports (Recker et
al. 2019; Wand and Weber 2002).

Old assumption: Scripts represent physical reality. One
key field assumption of CM research is that CM is for developing scripts to represent physical reality. Our review (Table
B3) revealed that 95 percent of CM papers focused on

Because of this focus, CM research has often built on works
of ontology, that is, the study of the nature of the world and
attempts to organize and describe what exists in reality
(Burton-Jones and Weber 2014; Green and Rosemann 2004).

MIS Quarterly Vol. 45 No. 1/March 2021

273

Recker et al./From Representation to Mediation

With this focus, evaluations of CM scripts have focused on
measures like representational accuracy (Kimelman et al.
2009; Kounev 2006) and representational quality (Currim and
Ram 2012; Koschmider et al. 2010; Recker et al. 2010).
These measures have been employed to evaluate how “completely and clearly” a script represents relevant phenomena in
the real world (e.g., Shanks et al. 2010; Shanks et al. 2008).
The use of ontology in CM research has been so prominent
that it became a reference for research in other domains, such
as data quality (Price and Shanks 2005; Wand and Wang
1996).
While works on ontology have been dominant, other theories
have also been used to provide guidelines to facilitate the
creation and improvement of CM scripts. However, most of
these theories also assume that CM scripts describe the parts
of the physical reality that an IS must represent. For example,
Figl et al. (2013) and Mendling et al. (2010) used cognitive
theories to evaluate the transparency of a CM script in terms
of how closely the script’s visual symbols matched referent
real-world concepts.
Challenge to assumption: Digital objects increasingly
shape reality. Digital objects are human-made artifacts that
are at least partially computed (Faulkner and Runde 2019).
Their structure and behavior can change through (re-)
programming of their digital layer (Yoo et al. 2010).
Today, digital objects are part of many first-world human
experiences (Yoo 2010). For example, we plan holidays
using recommender systems, we choose modes of transportation using shared mobility service platforms, and we engage
in biophysical activities in response to signals from wearable
devices. These examples show that IS no longer merely maps
physical reality representations onto digital objects but
increasingly assume a more active role by creating, shaping,
and governing physical reality (Baskerville et al. 2020). For
instance, procedural generation tools autonomously create
landscapes in video games (Seidel et al. 2018), solve design
challenges in the manufacture of semiconductors (Brown and
Linden 2011), and produce high-quality visual content (Huang
et al. 2016).
Digital objects do more than just create new objects. They
continually shape both digital and physical realities. For
example, self-driving cars operate within a physical domain
and must recognize and interact with certain physical objects,
be they pedestrians, regular cars, or obstacles. At the same
time, how a self-driving car constructs and interprets its own
digital reality can affect its adherence to legal, ethical and
moral norms and how it learns traditional and emergent traffic
behaviors. The physical reality in which the vehicle operates
changes through how it interprets its digital reality, just as

274

MIS Quarterly Vol. 45 No. 1/March 2021

much as changes in the physical reality, such as new traffic
patterns, new opportunities for commercial and public
transportation, and new rules and regulations, lead to changes
in its digital reality.
New assumption: Scripts represent both physical and
digital realities and mediate transitions between the two.
CM’s traditional purview of creating scripts of physical reality
must be broadened so CM is also about creating scripts of
digital reality in its own right. This shift in scope will help to
explain the ever-expanding and increasingly complex digital
world and facilitate change in either the physical or digital
world.
Moreover, rather than seeing CM as mainly guiding the creation of representations of physical reality in digital artifacts
(e.g., a database), we contend that a key function of CM in an
increasingly digital world is mediation. By mediation we
mean a structured process of facilitating understanding, communication, and change to capture, share, and translate among
aspects of multiple realities.5 In this understanding, CM provides tools that humans and digital agents can use to mediate
the transition between various states of digital and physical
realities. The key insight here is that CM assists in or enables
these transitions. Facts, assumptions, and beliefs gleaned
through CM can be used to understand relevant elements of
reality (physical or digital) and institute change in either the
digital or the physical world.

The Structure Assumption
Old assumption: Scripts represent the deep structural
meaning of IS. Our literature review (Table B3) shows that
89 percent of CM papers have focused on representing the
deep structural meaning of IS, which Weber (1997) suggested
lies at the core of the IS field. Therefore, as Weber contended, the question of the quality of a deep structure representation should be a major focus. However, over time a
dominant view emerged that CM should be used to represent
only deep structure phenomena, even though Weber pointed
out that both surface and physical structure phenomena should
also be featured in CM to describe the choices that designers
made. In our review, only two papers were concerned with
using CM to represent the surface structure aspects of IS, one
of which examined how OLAP schema interfaces could be
personalized according to users’ needs (Garrigós et al. 2012).
Similarly, we found only three papers that used CM to repre-

5

Our definition of mediation is inspired by Latour’s (2005, p. 39) notion of
a mediator as an entity or actor with the ability to “transform, translate,
distort, and modify the meaning or the elements they are supposed to carry.”

Recker et al./From Representation to Mediation

sent the physical structure aspects of IS. For example,
Vergara et al. (2007) examined how model-driven web engineering can accommodate the interoperability constraints that
are imposed through external, distributed assets that rely on
proprietary technical infrastructure standards like adaptors or
protocols.
Challenge to assumption: Digital objects blur the distinctions between deep, surface, and physical structures.
Digital objects are enduring, structured entities (Faulkner and
Runde 2019) that are composed of data and metadata and
regulated by structures or schemas (Hui 2016). Because they
are layered and modular (Yoo 2010), digital objects can be
software but can also be embedded in material objects such as
toothbrushes, smartphones, cars, and airplanes.
As a consequence and in contrast to the general-purpose
hardware that underpinned most traditional IS (e.g., PCs and
servers), the characteristics, constraints, and flexibility of new
types of hardware and software are central to how many
digital objects are used. Many digital objects involve specialized hardware that can connect seamlessly with real-world
behaviors, and software that can expose the data that specialized hardware captures in a way that is meaningful to the
user, depending on the interface. In analyzing or designing
such digital objects, developers must consider hardware
requirements to foster the deep meaning of user interactions.
At the same time, software must be developed such that it
responds to real-world interactions and captures, translates/
interprets, and displays meaning to users.
To illustrate, consider a wearable device like Fitbit. The
device’s pedometer, a physical structure element, directly
captures one kind of data (the deep structure element) the
device was designed to manage while at the same time constraining the shape and form of these data to the capacities of
the pedometer. The absence of a large screen (a surface structure element) impacts how users can interact with the device,
which is primarily through finger tapping. Both the surface
and the physical structures shape Fitbit’s deep structure. For
example, its semantic schema must be able to process different tapping rhythms and frequencies.
New assumption: Scripts represent deep structure and its
couplings with the physical and/or surface structure of
digital objects. CM’s traditional focus on capturing the deep
structure of IS must be broadened to include the physical
and/or surface structure of digital objects, as well as the couplings between the structures. The meaning of digital objects
is no longer solely vested in their deep structure but emerges
from how material and non-material components are combined into hybrid forms (Faulkner and Runde 2019).

With this updated assumption, CM must consider any relevant
structural properties of objects in physical or digital reality.
For example, CM may be used to represent not only the structure of a domain but also facts about the physical medium in
which a digital object will reside. Likewise, CM may be used
to represent multimedia and graphic elements of a user
interface.

The Agency Assumption
Old assumption: Scripts are produced and consumed by
humans. A third field assumption we found is that CM is a
task undertaken and directed by humans as producers and
consumers of CM scripts. Of the 197 papers we reviewed,
176 examined CM as a task undertaken by humans in such
roles as professional IS analysts (172), end users (2), or
students in learning and teaching scenarios (2) (Table B3).
Only 18 papers (10%) focused on nonhuman, digital agents
involved in producing or consuming scripts. In these papers,
the focus was on developing new algorithms for CM tasks like
script creation (e.g., Purao et al. 2003), script validation (e.g.,
Eshuis and Wieringa 2004), or script transformation (e.g.,
Burgueno et al. 2014).
The dominant view of CM as a human activity is deeply engrained in the CM literature. For example, Topi and Ramesh
(2002) argued that CM research focuses mostly on humans’
developing and using CM scripts to communicate between
analysts and developers. In line with this focus, most CM
studies that have examined human participants characterize
them through social attributes like their level of training, technical experience, task-related experience, domain experience,
or modeling experience (Recker 2010; Reijers et al. 2011).
Many CM papers evaluate how individual differences in
human expertise affect CM practices (Mendling et al. 2019).
We found no corresponding characterizations of digital agents
(e.g., algorithms) that are involved in CM activities.
Challenge to assumption: Digital objects increasingly
have material agency. Digital objects increasingly have
material agency, that is, the capacity to act on their own, without human intervention (Leonardi 2011). Robots, autonomous vehicles, facial-recognition software, natural-language
processing tools, virtual bots, and machine learning platforms
increasingly perform versions of the kind of cognitive functions that are typically associated with humans, such as perceiving, reasoning, learning, and interacting (Rai et al. 2019).
Such digital objects do not just inform or automate (Zuboff
1985). They start to assume mastery and control. Examples
include software-controlled vehicles that drive autonomously
(Frazzoli et al. 2002), roboAdvisor software that manages

MIS Quarterly Vol. 45 No. 1/March 2021

275

Recker et al./From Representation to Mediation

investments by automatically rebalancing portfolios based on
target allocations (Lee and Shin 2018), and AI underwriters
that process loans (Markus 2017).
With these capabilities, digital objects increasingly feature as
agents in their own right. For example, Apple’s Siri, IBM’s
Watson, and Google’s Waymo can be seen as autonomous
entities. Even though they implement certain algorithms in a
predictable manner and their behavior is determined by
written code, they routinely make autonomous or semiautonomous decisions, and they do so in increasing numbers
of domains. How these digital entities “understand” the world
and increase their ability to act in it must therefore become an
important concern for CM because cognition rests on representation (Edelman 1999; Sowa 1999).
New assumption: Scripts are produced and consumed by
both human and digital agents. The conception of agency
in CM must be relaxed. So far we have assumed that scripts
are produced and/or consumed by humans who have proficiency and expertise in CM methods and domains. But
scripts can also be produced and/or consumed by digital
agents, meaning nonhuman, at least partially computed, artifacts like algorithms, autonomous tools, bots, APIs, and generative engines. Digital objects already outnumber humans as
information processors. In 2016, more than 20 billion devices
were connected and leveraged more than 50 billion sensors
(Zhang 2016). CM scripts can already be constructed through
machine learning algorithms that mine digital trace data (van
der Aalst 2016) or through natural-language processing
algorithms that can interpret verbally expressed requirements
(Friedrich et al. 2011). Likewise, algorithms and execution
engines already interpret and execute CM scripts (Ouyang et
al. 2009) and perform mapping between scripts (Malavolta et
al. 2009) so the scripts can be consumed by other digital
agents, such as APIs or execution engines. As advances in
artificial intelligence continue, the variety and level of digital
objects’ agency are set to increase as more digital agents
produce scripts of physical and digital realities, and more
digital agents interpret and execute them.

The Context Assumption
Old assumption: CM is a professional activity that occurs
in organizational work settings. The last major field assumption that our review made evident is that CM is a
profession-related exercise that is carried out within the
boundaries of organizational work. More than 97 percent of
the CM papers we reviewed investigated how CM scripts can
be developed or used within organizational work contexts but
not beyond (Table B3). The reported purposes of CM include

276

MIS Quarterly Vol. 45 No. 1/March 2021

representing organizations’ business processes (Recker et al.
2009), increasing the awareness of and knowledge about
business operations (Bandara et al. 2005; Recker et al. 2010;
Samuel et al. 2015), deconstructing organizational complexity
and managing organizational change (de Albuquerque and
Christ 2015; Weidlich and Mendling 2012), and specifying
data’s requirements, structure, and use in organizations (Ågerfalk and Eriksson 2004; Bowen et al. 2009). In total, 87
percent of the papers in our review portrayed CM as a
professional exercise (e.g., Bera et al. 2014) that is carried out
by an organizational work force that is trained in CM,
business, or both (e.g., Burton-Jones and Meso 2008; Milton
et al. 2012). Typical work roles mentioned in CM papers
include consultant, analyst, or designer (e.g., Milton et al.
2012; Recker et al. 2011).
There are good reasons for this assumption. The IS discipline
emanated from business and management schools (Hirschheim and Klein 2012), leading to research primarily having an
organizational focus (Yoo 2010, p. 215). Likewise, CM has
traditionally been developed during the early phases of systems analysis and design to elicit, define, analyze, and communicate system requirements between members of the IT
profession and other members of the organizational workforce
(Burton-Jones and Meso 2006). Empirical surveys have indicated that more than 70 percent of users work with CM scripts
to clarify domain and IS requirements among the members of
the organizational design team (Dobing and Parsons 2008).
In sum, the CM studies to date have assumed that IS are
analyzed or designed to operate in organizational work contexts (e.g., Krogstie et al. 2006; Weidlich and Mendling
2012), so CM scripts are viewed as integrative communication tools (Parsons 2002) that allow members of organizations
to relate their views of a domain to other views in the
organization.
Challenge to assumption: IS are increasingly developed
and deployed not only in organizational work but also in
nonwork settings of everyday life. Digital objects now feature in many everyday activities that we do to sustain our daily
lives, beyond organizational work settings alone (Yoo 2010).
Not only do we use digital technologies like computers and
laptops at work, also we use these and other technologies
(such as smart, connected devices, online social networks, and
wearable devices) long after we have left work.
This increase in IS deployment is matched by a widening
scope of IS development. IS are being designed and built not
only for organizational work but also for purposes outside it,
such as user-generated social media content, personal website
design, and end-user data management.

Recker et al./From Representation to Mediation

IS development as part of everyday life beyond organizational
work alone means that IS development is no longer the sole
purview of IT departments. Almost everyone can develop IS
for their personal use. Development tools like Wordpress.
com, Airtable, and Webflow.com expand the reach of IS
development to nonexpert cohorts, including children
(Kraleva et al. 2019), through new practices like drag-anddrop programming. Working with these tools, even those
with little to no specialized knowledge can build their own
websites, apps, productivity software, and data-management
solutions. They implicitly or explicitly engage in CM when
they learn to program robots using Lego Mindstorm, build a
personal website structure using Wordpress, or design responsive database structures using Webflow.com. Undergirding
these trends are changes in primary school curriculums, which
have begun to emphasize a variety of computer literacy skills,
including programming and software development (Saçkes et
al. 2011). Open-source software development (Bagozzi and
Dholakia 2006; Stewart and Gosain 2006), where users outside the traditional organizational workforce develop software
and use CM alongside IT professionals, provides another
illustration of these trends. These initiatives involve CM to a
much larger extent than typically assumed. Robles et al.
(2017) identified over 93,000 UML scripts across 24,000
projects on GitHub, a prominent open-source software
development platform.
New assumption: CM occurs inside and outside of organizational work settings. CM is no longer only an
organization-focused, professional work activity. Instead, the
production and consumption of scripts takes place both inside
and outside traditional organizational boundaries, and
involves both professional and nonprofessional agents. Tools,
platforms, and systems that enable or support CM production
and consumption activities are designed and used in a wider
social context than the organizational, professional work
setting alone.
With this wider reach, CM users include organizational staff
like trained IS professionals, as well as ordinary individuals
outside of the organizational context (Yoo 2010, p. 217).
This wide heterogeneity of users increases both the diversity
of objects to be represented and the differences in CM usage
patterns (Lukyanenko et al. 2017). For example, in some
settings, users are no longer passive content consumers but are
also content producers (Ritzer et al. 2012). Collective action
movements in government, science, and business involves the
public in decision-making, data collection, and analysis.
Known by such labels as “citizen science” (Levy and Germonprez 2017), “crowdsourcing” (Bayus 2013), and “participatory governance” (Pellizzoni 2003), such collective action is
fueled by the promise of novel, out-of-the-box perspectives

that ordinary individuals can provide. As Lukyanenko et al.
(2016, p. 447) observed, “because citizens generally lack
formal … training, they view problems and issues in light of
their own knowledge and interests, creating fertile ground for
discoveries.”

Interim Conclusions from the
Literature Review
The CM community has generally worked within its shared
field assumptions, resulting in a cumulative research tradition
with a shared set of methods and instruments that has produced a constant stream of high-quality papers. Most studies
have built on theories of ontology (e.g., Burton-Jones and
Meso 2006; Milton et al. 2012) or cognition (e.g., Evermann
2005; Figl et al. 2013) to define the antecedents of outcome
variables, such as script comprehensibility (e.g., Parsons
2011; Recker 2013), domain understanding (e.g., Bera et al.
2014; Burton-Jones and Meso 2006), and similar measures of
representational quality (e.g., Genero et al. 2011; Poels et al.
2011). The studies have focused on organizational settings
involving professional workers as producers or consumers of
CM scripts.
The embeddedness of assumptions in CM research is not a
limitation per se. Field assumptions provide valuable structuration mechanisms that allow researchers to build incrementally on others’ work, supporting the accumulation of
knowledge. They also accelerate research processes because
they provide shared conceptual lexica, measures, instruments,
materials, and procedures.
However, assumptions can become detrimental (Feyerabend
2010; Kuhn 1991) if they create stereotypes that increase
research within the bounds of existing assumptions at the
expense of research outside those assumptions (Gray and
Cooper 2010). They can constrain the breadth of CM
research by limiting opportunities to explore unchartered
territories, generate new theories and hypotheses, and increase
the empirical scope.

A New Framework for
Conceptual Modeling
Our review shows that the CM field assumptions have been
largely stable, even though the IS landscape has not. Developments in technology and organizing have made CM field
assumptions increasingly distant from and poorly fitting with
IS reality. These developments limit the contributions and

MIS Quarterly Vol. 45 No. 1/March 2021

277

Recker et al./From Representation to Mediation

explanatory power of CM research that remains within the
realm constructed by the old assumptions. If research communities cling to and propagate outdated views, they lose
relevance and credibility (Hirschheim 2019; Hovorka et al.
2019). Therefore, a change of direction in CM research is
timely and warranted. In response, we propose a novel
framework for CM research and update its research agenda.
The new perspective we propose is shown in Figure 1 as the
conceptual modeling in the digital world (CMDW)
framework. The key constructs that conceptualize the
elements of the framework are described in Table 3. The
updated definitions of the constructs mirror the update in
assumptions shown in Table 2.
In constructing the framework, we remained cognizant of
almost five decades of research on CM and accounted for the
conceptual foundations that underlie CM research and practice. Thus, at its core, the CMDW Framework presents the
four key CM constructs distilled by Wand and Weber (2002):
the CM script, method, grammar and context. For example,
in the new framework, a CM method still describes the procedures by which a CM grammar can be used, and which
could be implemented as rules and principles and supported
with tools and techniques. A CM grammar in the new framework is still a set of constructs and rules that show how to
combine these constructs, and it still has syntactic and semantic elements (Burton-Jones et al. 2009). To maintain the
conceptual lineage, Figure 1 visualizes the constructs in the
CMDW framework graphically, analogous to Wand and
Weber, but the roles and relationships between the constructs
are conceptualized differently in several ways.
The first difference in our conceptualization is that our framework recognizes that CM occurs within and between physical
and digital realities, as indicated visually in Figure 1 through
two separate but partially overlapping shaded areas within the
CM context (Baskerville et al. 2020).
The second difference is that our framework situates the CM
script as the principal CM artifact at the intersection of
physical and digital realities because it serves multiple functions in mediating between these realities. These functions
are indicated visually in Figure 1 through four different,
labeled arrows. This conceptualization stresses that mediation
involves representation (of things in the physical or digital
reality), as well as translation (e.g., from digital to physical
reality), execution (e.g., within digital reality), and change
(e.g., states of things in physical reality).
The third difference is that we visually place the script construct outside the method and grammar constructs in Figure 1,
while Wand and Weber (2002) conceptualized the CM script

278

MIS Quarterly Vol. 45 No. 1/March 2021

as an outcome bounded by a CM grammar and method. This
conceptualization provides for the possibility of decoupling
scripts from CM methods and CM grammars. For example,
nonexpert developers might create nascent representations
that do not adhere strictly to the rules of existing grammars.
The fourth difference is that our framework extends Wand
and Weber (2002) by recognizing the CM agent as any human
or digital agent, not just human agents, who/that produces or
consumes CM scripts (highlighted visually through placement
at the overlap between physical and digital realities).
Finally, our framework offers a new definition of the CM
context by describing the CM context broadly as the continually changing socio-material setting in which CM occurs
(Table 3). This setting is distributed over time and space and
involves physical as well as digital objects and events across
digital and physical realities. It occurs both within and between organizational work settings and the nonwork settings
of everyday life. This expanded definition updates Wand and
Weber’s (2002) definition by emphasizing that CM activities
are no longer performed within organizational, professional
contexts alone but can be undertaken in any organizational or
non-organizational setting. This broader context, we argue,
provides CM scholarship the opportunity to go from niche to
mainstream.

Discussion
We now discuss the key shifts in perspectives on CM propagated by the CMDW framework. They flow from our reconceptualization of existing constructs (e.g., script or context)
and our addition of new CM constructs (e.g., agent, digital
reality, or mediating relationships).

The CM Script Is the Focal CM Artifact
In CM research to date, considerable emphasis has been on
grammars and methods (Table B1). In contrast, we position
the CM script as the core CM artifact. Our argument is that
the CMDW framework does not insist on a CM script being
an instance of a particular grammar.
With end-user computing increasing and CM opening to a
broader population, a strict coupling of scripts to grammars is
no longer realistic. In a realm in which millions of people
may be engaged in IS development and deployment, new
forms of CM may emerge that may not comply with any
existing grammars. Nonexpert communities already model

Recker et al./From Representation to Mediation

Figure 1. A New Framework for Conceptual Modeling in the Digital World (CMDW Framework)

Table 3. Construct Definitions in the CMDW Framework
Construct
CM Script

CM Method
CM Grammar

CM Agent

CM Context

Physical Reality

Digital Reality

Mediation

Wand and Weber’s(2002) Definition
A statement generated in the language of a CM
grammar that provides a description of the realworld phenomena that an IS is intended to
represent.
The procedures by which a CM grammar can be
used.

Updated CMDW Definition
A generated statement that is suitable for
purposes of mediation and provides a description
of the phenomena of a physical and/or digital
reality.
Same

A set of constructs and rules that shows how to
combine the constructs to model real-world
domains.
Not explicitly defined. Implicitly assumed to be
a human agent that produces and/or consumes
CM scripts
The setting in which CM occurs and scripts are
used, including individual difference, task, and
social agenda factors.
The aggregation of constituent material and
socially constructed things and their properties
that exist in the real world.

A set of constructs and rules that shows how to
combine the constructs to model physical or digital
domains of reality.
A human or digital agent that produc es and/or
consumes CM scripts.
The intertwined physical and digital reality setting
in which CM occurs and scripts are produced and
consumed.
Same

The aggregation of logical and non-material things
and their properties that exist in the computed,
digital realm.
Activities related to facilitating representation,
translation, execution, and change between
aspects of physical and digital realities.

MIS Quarterly Vol. 45 No. 1/March 2021

279

Recker et al./From Representation to Mediation

domains of physical reality using representational methods
that do not conform to any established modeling grammar.
For example, to communicate the intricacies of the possible
ties between the U.S. President, Donald Trump, and his
Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, journalists have been
using a variety of CM scripts that draw on the grammatical
elements of entity-relationship, process, network, and semantic models, infused with rich multimedia elements (Yourish
and Buchanan 2019). IS practitioners recognize the versatility of such ad hoc, hybrid CM scripts in some cases and
even recommend using them over traditional, more formalized
modeling grammars like ER or UML (Frisendal 2016).
Studying the development and qualities of such CM scripts in
their own right may uncover innovative solutions that precipitate the development of formalized CM grammars of the
future.
This separation of CM scripts from formalized CM grammars
is consistent with modern linguistic theory. Since all CM
scripts are linguistic expressions, they can be grammatical
(Chomsky 2002), that is, valid based on the rules and constructs of a particular grammar, such as English or UML. For
example, two named boxes connected with a line are grammatical for numerous CM grammars, including various notations
of ERD and UML. However, CM scripts can also be ungrammatical, that is, in violation of a given grammar. For
example, the objectification of unary facts is ungrammatical
for ORM-1 (Halpin 2006). Producing a script that violates a
CM grammar is often done in teaching (such as in student
exercises that ask to find grammatical errors in invalid scripts,
see as an example Halpin and Morgan 2008, p. 94). It also
occurs in practice, as when ungrammatical guidelines are
introduced to override grammatical rules (Recker et al. 2010;
Samuel et al. 2015).
Ungrammatical CM scripts do not come from nowhere; they
are products of some generative mechanisms. In linguistics,
all expressions are assumed to be instances of some underlying generative process (some basic or universal grammar),
so studying the properties of this underlying generative system
has been a major focus of modern linguistics (e.g., Chierchia
and McConnell-Ginet 2000; Lyons 1991). Our framework
recognizes that such mechanisms could also have properties
of theoretical interest to CM scholars by suggesting that CM
research should be interested in both grammatical CM scripts
(the traditional CM perspective) and ungrammatical CM
scripts (a novel idea, to our knowledge). We promote the use
of valid, grammatical CM scripts. Grammatically valid
scripts ensure consistent communication of the messages and
a reliable execution of its mediating functions. At the same
time, script violations should also become valuable objects of
CM research. Ungrammatical CM scripts may carry important signals regarding how CM is actually used and could
reveal some of the basic characteristics that underlie all CM
grammars.

280

MIS Quarterly Vol. 45 No. 1/March 2021

CM Scripts Perform Mediation Functions
Beyond Representation Alone
A second key perspective propagated by our framework is
that the role of CM extends beyond representation to include
mediation. As physical and digital realities become increasingly entwined, and the digital world grows ever more
complex, a major challenge will be to facilitate the transition
between states of reality. Our position is that CM scripts are
well-positioned for this task.
Positioning CM scripts as mediating objects is fully consistent
with the traditional view of CM scripts as representational
artifacts. Representation (e.g., of the states a material thing
traverses in physical reality through a CM script) is a key
element of mediation. However, mediation implies activities
beyond mere representation, as CM scripts must be situated in
the realities (physical and/or digital) to support the transition
of a modeled phenomenon between states of reality. Figure 1
shows CM scripts have four functions to perform, instead of
one:
1.

Represent physical reality in digital reality. CM
scripts have always been tools that translated assumptions
about physical reality into a form and content suitable for
the development of digital software components, such as
databases or program code (Mylopoulos 1992). CM
remains central to ensuring that physical reality is appropriately represented in the features and processes of IS
embodied in or enabled by digital objects.

2.

Execute digital reality within physical reality. Digital
objects and events increasingly shape physical reality,
signaling pres