# FULL TEXT — G-Memory: Tracing Hierarchical Memory for Multi-Agent Systems

https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.07398v2

arXiv:2506.07398v2 [cs.MA] 16 Jun 2025

G-Memory: Tracing Hierarchical Memory for
Multi-Agent Systems

Guibin Zhang∗1 , Muxin Fu∗2 , Guancheng Wan3 , Miao Yu4 , Kun Wang5† , Shuicheng Yan1†
1
NUS, 2 Tongji University, 3 UCLA, 4 A*STAR, 5 NTU
∗
Equal Contribution, † Corresponding author
# wang.kun@ntu.edu.sg, yansc@comp.nus.edu.sg

Abstract
Large language model (LLM)-powered multi-agent systems (MAS) have demonstrated cognitive and execution capabilities that far exceed those of single LLM
agents, yet their capacity for self-evolution remains hampered by underdeveloped memory architectures. Upon close inspection, we are alarmed to discover
that prevailing MAS memory mechanisms (1) are overly simplistic, completely
disregarding the nuanced inter-agent collaboration trajectories, and (2) lack crosstrial and agent-specific customization, in stark contrast to the expressive memory
developed for single agents. To bridge this gap, we introduce G-Memory, a hierarchical, agentic memory system for MAS inspired by organizational memory
theory [1], which manages the lengthy MAS interaction via a three-tier graph
hierarchy: insight, query, and interaction graphs. Upon receiving a new user query,
G-Memory performs bi-directional memory traversal to retrieve both high-level,
generalizable insights that enable the system to leverage cross-trial knowledge,
and fine-grained, condensed interaction trajectories that compactly encode prior
collaboration experiences. Upon task execution, the entire hierarchy evolves by
assimilating new collaborative trajectories, nurturing the progressive evolution of
agent teams. Extensive experiments across five benchmarks, three LLM backbones,
and three popular MAS frameworks demonstrate that G-Memory improves success
rates in embodied action and accuracy in knowledge QA by up to 20.89% and
10.12%, respectively, without any modifications to the original frameworks. Our
codes are available at https://github.com/bingreeky/GMemory.

1

Introduction

As Large Language Models (LLMs) continue to redefine the frontier of artificial intelligence, LLMdriven agents have exhibited unprecedented prowess in perception [2, 3, 4, 5], planning [6, 7, 8],
reasoning [9, 10], and action [11, 12], which have catalyzed remarkable progress across diverse
downstream domains, including code generation [13, 14], data analysis [15], embodied tasks [16] and
autonomous driving [3, 17, 18]. Building upon the impressive competencies of single agents, LLMbased Multi-Agent Systems (MAS) have been demonstrated to push the boundaries of single model
capacity [19, 20, 21]. Similar to collective intelligence arising from human social collaboration [22,
23, 24], MAS orchestrates multiple agents [25, 26, 27], whether through cooperation [28, 29, 30, 31]
or competition [32, 33, 34], to transcend the cognitive and specialized limitations of solitary agents.
Self-Evolving Agents. What especially characterizes LLM agents is their self-evolving capacity,
i.e., the ability to continuously adapt and improve through interactions with the environment, as seen
in prior works where such adaptability has led to two- to three-fold quantitative improvements [35].
The central driving force behind such self-evolving nature is memory mechanism of agents [36,
37, 38], which parallels human abilities to accumulate knowledge, process past experiences, and
Preprint.

Token cost (1e+6)

Token cost
on ALFWorld
benchmark

DyLAN
(7.9e6 tokens)

Query
Insight
Verify the state of
objects before and
after action...

Status

Check whether there is
an apple in the garden
Execution success!

OK, my task is
to check the
garden...

I will reclaim
the order more
clearly...

Unconvincing!
You should ..

AutoGen
(4.3e6 tokens)

ComplexCoT
(6.1e5 tokens)

Query

CoT
(5.8e5 tokens)

Performance (%)

Insight
Check all
possible locations before
reaching an conclusion on ...

Status

Insight Graph

Check whether there
are more than two
oranges on the table
of the kitchen?
Execution fail!

Query Graph

I found 2
apples, 1
orange.

The answer now is YES!

Interaction Graph

Figure 1: (Left) We report the token cost of several single-agent and MAS baselines on ALFWorld
benchmark; (Right) The overview of G-Memory’s three-tier hierarchical memory architecture, encompassing the insight graph, query graph and interaction (utterance) graph.
retrieve relevant information. Previous successful memory mechanism designs, including both
inside-trial memory (i.e., context retained within solving one single query) and cross-trial memory
(i.e., experience accumulated across multiple tasks) [39], have empowered agents to excel in diverse
applications such as personalized chat [36, 40, 41], recommendation [42], embodied action [43, 16],
and social simulation [19, 44, 45], enabling them to evolve into experiential learners that effectively
leverage past experiences and world knowledge.
Self-Evolving MAS. However, such self-evolving capacity remains largely absent in multi-agent
systems. Most existing MAS are still constrained by manually defined workflows, such as the
Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) in MetaGPT [21] and ChatDev [46], or rely on pre-defined
communication topologies in MacNet [47] and AgentPrune [30]. More recent automated MASs, such
as GPTSwarm [48], ADAS [49], AFlow [50], and MaAS [51] have made it to automatically optimize
inter-agent topologies or prompts, which, nevertheless, ultimately yield giant and cumbersome MAS
architectures, lacking the agility to self-adjust with accumulated collaboration experience.
Memory for MAS. The absence of the aforementioned self-evolving capacity is, in fact, rooted in
the lack of memory mechanisms specifically tailored for MAS. One may challenge this claim from two
perspectives: ❶ Do existing MASs lack memory mechanisms altogether? Not entirely. Classical MAS
frameworks such as MetaGPT, ChatDev, and Exchange-of-Thought [52] incorporate memory-related
designs. However, these are often limited to inside-trial memory [52], while cross-trial memory, if
present, remains rudimentary—typically involving the transmission of overly condensed artifacts
(e.g., final solutions or execution results) [21, 46, 47], and failing to enable meaningful learning from
collaborative experience. ❷ Why not directly transfer existing single-agent memory mechanisms to
MAS? Unfortunately, such a transfer is far from straightforward. The inherent nature of MAS, i.e.,
multi-turn orchestration across multiple agents [26, 27], leads to substantially longer task-solving
trajectories compared to single-agent settings (up to 10× more tokens, as demonstrated by Figure 1
(Left)). This poses a significant challenge to traditional retrieval-based memory designs [36, 37, 16],
as naive feeding of the entire long-context trajectory without proper abstraction from a collaborative
perspective offers little benefit. Given the aforementioned challenges, a natural question arises:
How can we design a memory mechanism capable of storing, retrieving, and
managing the lengthy interaction history of multi-agent systems, such that agent
teams can benefit from concise and instructive experience and insights?
The Present Work: G-Memory. In response to the above question, we introduce a Graph-based
:
Agentic :::::::
Memory Mechanism for LLM-based Multi-Agent Systems, dubbed G-Memory, which manages
the complex and lengthy interaction history of MAS through a three-tier hierarchical graph structure:
✱ Insight Graph, which abstracts generalizable insights from historical experience;
✱ Query Graph, which encodes meta-information of task queries and their connectivity;
✱ Interaction Graph, which stores fine-grained textual communication logs among agents.
Figure 1 (Right) visualizes these structures, and their formal definitions are placed in Section 3. When
a new query arrives, G-Memory efficiently retrieves relevant query records by leveraging the topology
of the query graph, and then traverses upward (i.e., query→insight graph) to extract associated highlevel insights and downward (i.e., query→interaction graph) to identify core interaction subgraphs
that are most pertinent to the task at hand, thereby mitigating information overload. Based on the
2

retrieved memory, G-Memory offers actionable guidance to the MAS, e.g., division of labor, task
decomposition, and lessons from past failures. Upon the completion of a task, all three levels of the
memory hierarchy are updated in an agentic manner, with newly distilled insights, enriched query
records, detailed MAS trajectories, and their level of detailed associations. Through this refinement,
G-Memory functions as a plug-and-play module that can be seamlessly embedded into mainstream
MAS frameworks, empowering evolving inter-agent collaboration and collective intelligence.
Our contributions are summarized as follows:
❶ Bottleneck Identification. We conduct a thorough review of existing multi-agent systems and
identify a fundamental bottleneck in their self-evolving capabilities, which is largely attributed
to the oversimplified memory architectures.
❷ Practical Solution. We propose G-Memory, a hierarchical agentic memory architecture for
MAS, which models complex and prolonged inter-agent collaboration through a three-tier
structure comprising insight, query, and interaction graphs.
❸ Experimental Evaluation. Extensive experiments across five benchmarks show that G-Memory
is (I) high-performing, improving state-of-the-art MAS by up to 20.89% and 10.12% on
embodied action and knowledge QA tasks, respectively; and (II) resource-friendly, maintaining
comparable or even lower token usage than mainstream memory designs.

2

Related Works

Single-Agent Memory. Memory serves as a primary driving force for agents to accumulate
experiences and explore the world through interactions with the environment [53, 54, 55, 56]. It
plays a critical role in both task-solving and social simulation LLM agents, and this work primarily
focuses on the former. Early research on agent memory was confined to simple inside-trial memory,
mainly addressing limitations posed by the LLM context window in chatbot applications, including
MemoryBank [36], ChatDB [40], MemoChat [41], and MemGPT [37], which typically adopt retrievalaugmented generation (RAG)-style, similarity-based chunk retrieval. Subsequent developments
have progressed toward more cognitively inspired memory architectures, including (1) memory
scope extended to cross-trial memory like ExpeL [43] and Synapse [57]; (2) application domains
broadened to include computer control [57], embodied action [58], scientific discovery [59], coding
and reasoning [60]; and (3) management techniques evolved from coarse-grained textual similarity
toward more sophisticated abstraction and summarization of acquired knowledge and experiences [19],
as seen in A-Mem [61], Mem0 [62] and MemInsight [63]. More discussions are in Appendix D.
Memory in Multi-agent System. However, the memory mechanisms tailored for MAS remain
markedly underexplored. Some representative frameworks, such as LLM-Debate [20, 33] and
Mixture-of-Agent [64], omit memory components altogether. Others merely adopt simplistic insidetrial memory schemes [47, 52]. Even in frameworks that attempt cross-trial memory [46], the memory
is merely compressed as the final outcome artifacts, overlooking the nuanced agent interactions.
Collectively, there is a pressing need for a principled memory architecture that can capture, organize,
and retrieve the inherently intricate task-solving processes unique to MAS [39].
LLM-based Multi-Agent Systems. Our work focuses on task-solving MAS, which, unlike their
single-agent counterparts, often lack the capacity for continual evolution through interaction with the
environment [65, 66]. Early frameworks such as AutoGen [13], CAMEL [24], and AgentVerse [67]
rely entirely on pre-defined workflows. More recent efforts [68, 69, 50, 49, 70, 31] introduce a
degree of adaptivity by generating dynamic MAS in response to environmental feedback. However,
such evolution is often one-shot: for example, AFlow [50] employs Monte Carlo Tree Search to
construct a complex MAS tailored to a specific task domain, which yet lacks the capacity to evolve
with increasing task exposure or transfer across domains [51, 71]. From this perspective, constructing
MAS with genuine self-evolving capabilities remains an open and challenging research frontier.

3

Preliminary

In this section, we establish the notation and formalize key concepts of multi-agent systems and
G-Memory’s hierarchical memory architecture.
Multi-agent System Formalization. Consider a multi-agent framework represented by a directed
graph G = (V, E), where |V| = N is the number of agents and E ⊆ V×V defines their communication
3

channels. Each node Ci ∈ V corresponds to an individual agent described by the quadruple:
Ci = (Basei , Rolei , Memi , Plugini ),

(1)

where Basei denotes the underlying large language model instance, Rolei specifies the agent’s
designated role or persona, Memi encapsulates its memory state, including past interactions or
external knowledge stores, and Plugini is the set of auxiliary tools (e.g., web-search engine).
Upon receiving a user query Q, the system evolves through T synchronous communication epochs.
At each epoch t, we derive a topological ordering π = [π1 , . . . , πN ] of the nodes such that if there is
an edge from πj to πk , then j < k, which guarantees that every agent processes its inputs only after
all its predecessors have acted. For each agent Ci in π, its output at iteration t is computed as:


(t)
(t)
(t)
ri = Ci Psys
, Q, {rj : Cj ∈ N − (Ci )} ,
(t)

where: ri denotes the response generated by Ci (which may include reasoning steps, intermediate
(t)
analyses, or final proposals), Psys comprises global instructions (including each agent’s Ri ), N − (Ci )
is the set of in-neighbors of Ci , whose outputs serve as contextual inputs. After all agents have acted,
a global aggregation operator A fuses the collection of responses into an interim solution a(t) :
(t)

(t)

a(t) = A(r1 , . . . , rN ).
Common implementations for A include majority voting schemes [48], hierarchical summarization
via dedicated aggregator agents [13, 30], or simply adopting the final agent’s output as the answer [47].
These epochs iterate for t = {1, . . . , T } until either a preset limit is reached or an early-stopping
criterion is met [72], producing the final response a(T ) to the query Q.
Memory Architecture. Our proposed G-Memory orchestrates and manages the memory of multiagent systems via the following three hierarchical graph structures:
(Q)

(Q)

[✱] Interaction Graph (Utterance Graph). For query Q, let Ginter = (U (Q) , Eu ) denote its
interaction trajectory, where (i) nodes U (Q) = {ui } represent atomic utterances, with each ui ≜
(Q)
(Ai , mi ) containing Ai ∈ V (speaking agent), and mi (textual content), (ii) Edges Eu ⊆ U (Q) ×
(Q)
U (Q) follow temporal relationships: (uj , uk ) ∈ Eu
⇐⇒ uj is transmitted to and inspires uk .
[✱] Query Graph. The query graph, storing previously tackled queries and metadata, is as follows:


(Q ) |Q|
Gquery = (Q, Eq ) = Qi , Ψi , Ginteri i=1 , Eq ,
(2)
(Q )

where Q = {qi } is the node set, node qi ≜ (Qi , Ψi , Ginteri ) is composed of the original query Qi , task
(Q )
status Ψi ∈ {Failed, Resolved}, and its associated interaction graph Ginteri . The edges Eq ⊆ Q × Q
encode semantic relationships between queries. The query graph enables retrieval beyond coarse
metrics such as embedding similarity, with its meticulous topology.
[✱] Insight Graph. The highest-level insight graph is featured as follows:


|I|
Ginsight = (I, Ei ) = ⟨κk , Ωk ⟩k=1 , Ei ,
| {z }

(3)

ιk

where the node set I = {ιk } represents distilled insights, each node ιk is composed of the insight
content κk and the set of supporting queries Ωk ⊆ Q. The edges Ei ⊆ I × I × Q forming
hyper-connections where (ιm , ιn , qj ) indicates insight ιm contextualizes ιn through query qj .

4

G-Memory

This section outlines the management workflow of G-Memory, as illustrated in Figure 2. Specifically,
upon the arrival of a new query Q, G-Memory first conducts coarse-grained retrieval to identify
pertinent trajectory records (▷ Section 4.1). It then performs bi-directional hierarchical memory
traversal: upward to retrieve collective cognitive insights, and downward to distill concrete procedural
trajectories (▷ Section 4.2). After the memory-augmented MAS completes the query execution,
the hierarchical memory architecture is jointly updated based on environmental feedback, thereby
achieving the institutionalization of group knowledge (▷ Section 4.3).
4

Symbols

Insight Graph

Distilled Insights

Black font: Notations
Red font: Operations
: Forward Process

Insight

: Edges btween nodes

Ensure the search
terms are precise
and directly
related to the
specific entity or
institution ...

: Insight node

: Query node

: Agent utterance node

🤔 Query/Task
Topic: Embodied
Diffculty:
You are in the middle of a
room. Looking quickly around
you, you see a cabinet 6, a
cabinet 5, ... Your task is to:
put a clean egg in microwave.

Topic: Web search
Diffculty:

b1 is on b2., b2 is on b6.,
b3 is on b7., b5 is on b3.

Memory

Interactions

Interaction
Graphs

Core Path
Extraction

Topic: Game
Diffculty:

Update
Insights

Environment
Feedback
Execution: Success
Token cost: 3,345
Tool calls: 3 ...

downward
traversal

CEO agent:
assigning tasks...
Thinker agent:
OK, I will...
Executor agent: ...

Augmentation
Output
Solution
Since both are confirmed
as film directors from
their respective countries,
the answer is Yes.

Iteration

Similaritybased Retrival

1.

Your task is to find a
butterfly egg in the
outside. Move it to the
green box in the bathroom.

and

Memory

Are Deodato and
Alejandro both film
directors?

Query Graph

from

Insight 2: Doublecheck the relevance from
of the search results

Multi-agent
System

Query

Are both Lygodium or
Maxillaria a genus of orchids?

Topic: Embodied
Diffculty:

upward
traversal

Insight 1: Clearly identify key
entities and their roles, use
specific names and titles

Augmentation

Update
Interaction

Trajectory Condensation
Collab. Experience
This history follows a chainstyle, collaboration strategy...

Failure Lessons
Take care when summarizing the
final result, DO NOT ...

Figure 2: The overview of our proposed G-Memory.
4.1 Coarse-grained Memory Retrieval
As a plug-in designed for seamless integration into mainstream MAS, G-Memory is triggered when
the MAS G encounters a new user query Q. As emphasized in organizational memory theory [1],
efficient knowledge retrieval typically begins with broadly relevant schemas prior to more fine-grained
access. Following this principle, G-Memory first performs a coarse-grained similarity-based retrieval
over the query graph Gquery to efficiently obtain a sketched set of queries QS :


v(Q) · v(qi )
QS = arg top-k
,
(4)
qi ∈Q s.t. |QS |=k |v(Q)| |v(qi )|
where v(·) maps queries into fixed-length embeddings using models such as MiniLM [73]. While
Equation (4) retrieves semantically similar historical queries, the similarity may be only superficial or
noisy. Therefore, G-Memory further enlarges the relevant set via hop expansion on the query graph:

Q̃S = QS ∪ Qk ∈ Q | ∃Qj ∈ QS , Qk ∈ N + (Qj ) ∪ N − (Qj ) ,
(5)
where Q̃S is augmented with the 1-hop neighbors of QS on the query graph Gquery . However, it
is suboptimal to directly feed these relevant records as input akin to certain single-agent memory
systems [41, 37]. On one hand, the excessive context length may overwhelm the LLM; on the other
hand, agents in MAS play distinct roles and should be assigned specialized memory tailored to
their functions. To address this, the next section introduces a bi-directional processing scheme in
G-Memory that operates over both abstract and fine-grained memory levels.
4.2

Bi-directional Memory Traversal

Subsequent to identifying the expanded set of relevant query nodes Q̃S within Gquery , G-Memory executes a bi-directional memory traversal to furnish multi-granularity memory support. Specifically,
G-Memory first performs an upward traversal (Gquery → Ginsight ), retrieving insight nodes that may
provide high-level guidance for the current task:
I S = ΠQ→I (Q̃S ), ΠQ→I (Sq ) ≜ {ιk ∈ I | Ωk ∩ Sq ̸= ∅} ,

(6)

where ΠQ→I is a query-to-insight projector that identifies all the insight nodes whose supporting
query sets intersect with the input query set, and the retrieved insights I S encapsulate distilled,
generalized knowledge potentially relevant for orienting the MAS G’s strategic approach to Q.
Beyond generalized insights, the fine-grained textual interaction history of the MAS is equally
valuable, as it reveals the underlying reasoning patterns that led to successful or failed collaborations [68, 74, 75]. To utilize these concisely, in the downward traversal (Gquery → Ginteraction ),
5

G-Memory employs an LLM-facilitated graph sparsifier SLLM (·, ·) to extract the core subgraph that
encapsulates essential inter-agent collaboration:
n
o
(Q )
Qi |M |
{Ĝinter
}i=1 = SLLM (Ginterj , Q) | qj ∈ argtop-M RLLM (Q, qk′ ) ,
(7)
′ ∈Q̃S } s.t. |·|=M
{qk

where RLLM (Q, qj ) rates the relevancy of historical queries w.r.t. Q, and the sparsifier
(Q )
(Q )
(Q )
(Q )
SLLM (Ginterj , Q) constructs a sparsified graph Ĝinterj = (Û (Qj ) , Êu j ) from the original Ginterj by
identifying and retaining dialogue elements. Please refer to Appendix C for their implementations.
Upon completing the bi-directional traversal, we obtain both generalizable insights (I S ) and detailed
Qi |M |
collaborative trajectories ({Ĝinter
}i=1 ). G-Memory then proceeds to provide specialized memory
support for each agent C ∈ V within the MAS G.


Qi |M |
Memi ← Φ I S , {Ĝinter
}i=1 ; Rolei , Q , ∀Ci = (Basei , Rolei , Memi , Plugini ) ∈ V,
(8)
where the operator Φ(·; ·) evaluates the utility and relevance of each insight ιk ∈ I S and sparsified
(Q )
interaction graph Ĝinterj concerning the agent’s specific role Rolei and the task Q (see Appendix C).
Based on this evaluation, Φ intializes each agent’s internal memory state Memi with filtered insights,
interaction snippets, summaries thereof, equipping it with pertinent historical context before it
participates in the subsequent reasoning epochs of the MAS. It is worth noting that G-Memory is
invoked at the onset of solving query Q in our implementation. However, practitioners may flexibly
configure more fine-grained invocation strategies, such as at the beginning of each MAS dialogue
round or selectively for specific agents, based on their needs.
4.3 Hierarchy Memory Update
After completing memory augmentation for each agent, the system G is executed as outlined in Section 3, yielding a final solution a(T ) and receiving environmental feedback, including execution status
Ψi ∈ {Failed, Resolved}, token usage, and other performance metrics. Subsequently, G-Memory
updates its hierarchical memory architecture to incorporate this new query. At the interaction level,
(Q)
G-Memory traces each agent’s utterances to construct the interaction graph Ginter , which is then stored.
At the query level, a new query node is instantiated and added to the query graph Qquery :
 [

(Q)
qnew ← (Q, Ψ, Ginter ), Nconn ← QR ∪
Ωk ,
(9)
ιk ∈I S
next
Enew ← {(qn , qnew ) | qn ∈ Nconn }, Gquery ← (Q ∪ {qnew }, Eq ∪ Enew ),
where edges are established between qnew and (ii) the set QR S
containing the top-M relevant historical
queries identified in Equation (7), and (ii) the set of queries ιk ∈Iret Ωk that support the insights I S
next
utilized for solving Q. Gquery
denotes the updated query graph.
Finally, at the insight level, G-Memory integrates the learning from the completed query Q into the
insight graph Ginsight = (I, Ei ). First, possible new insights summarizing the experience are generated
and structurally linked via a summarization function J (·, ·) (see prompt in Appendix C) as follows:
(Q)

ιnew = (J (Ginter , Ψ), {qnew }), Ei, new ← {(ιk , ιnew , qnew ) | ιk ∈ I S }
′
Ginsight
← (I ∪ {ιnew }, Ei ∪ Ei, new )

(10)

where edges are added to connect the previously utilized insights which inspires the completion of Q
in Equation (6). Afterward, the supporting query sets (Ωk ) for the utilized insights (I S ) are updated
to include qnew , reflecting their relevance to this successful (or failed) application:
I next ← (I \ Iret ) ∪ {(κk , Ωk ∪ {qnew }) | ιk = (κk , Ωk ) ∈ Iret } ∪ {ιnew }
next
Ginsight
← (I next , Ei ∪ Ei, new ),

(11)

where the final node set I next incorporates the new insight and the updated versions of the utilized
next
insights, and the resulting graph Ginsight
thus encapsulates the integrated knowledge. This continuous
update cycle across all hierarchical levels enables G-Memory to learn and adaptively refine its
collective memory based on ongoing experience.
6

Table 1: Performance comparison with single/multi-agent memory architectures on five benchmarks.
The underlying LLM backbone is GPT-4o-mini. We highlight the best and second best results.
MAS

AutoGen
COLM 2024

DyLAN
COLM 2024

MacNet
ICLR 2025

5

Memory
No-memory
Voyager

ALFWorld
77.61↑0.00
85.07↑7.46

SciWorld
54.49↑0.00
62.36↑7.87

PDDL
23.53↑0.00
24.56↑1.03

HotpotQA
28.57↑0.00
32.32↑3.75

FEVER
57.13↑0.00
63.27↑6.14

Avg.
48.27↑0.00
53.52↑5.25

MemoryBank

74.96↓2.65

53.11↓1.38

Generative
MetaGPT
ChatDev
MacNet
G-Memory (Ours)

86.36↑8.75
81.34↑3.73
79.85↑2.24
76.55↓1.06
88.81↑11.20

61.19↑6.70
61.91↑7.42
50.96↓3.53
55.44↑0.95
67.40↑12.91

20.41↓3.12

33.67↑5.10

61.22↑4.09

48.67↑0.40

25.53↑2.00
21.63↓1.90
16.65↓6.88
22.94↓0.59
27.77↑4.24

31.63↑3.06
32.67↑4.10
24.49↓4.08
28.36↓0.21
35.67↑7.10

60.20↑3.07
62.67↑5.54
59.18↑2.05
60.87↑3.74
66.24↑9.11

52.98↑4.71
52.04↑3.77
46.23↓2.04
48.83↑0.56
57.18↑8.91

No-memory
Voyager
MemoryBank
Generative

56.72↑0.00
66.42↑9.70
55.22↓1.50
67.91↑11.19

55.38↑0.00
62.83↑7.45
54.74↓0.64
64.16↑8.78

11.62↑0.00
15.10↑3.48
8.08↓3.54
13.87↑2.25

31.69↑0.00
32.64↑0.95
29.59↓2.10
29.29↓2.40

60.20↑0.00
62.24↑2.04
59.13↓1.07
62.30↑2.10

43.12↑0.00
47.85↑4.73
41.35↓1.77
47.51↑4.39

MetaGPT-M
ChatDev-M
MacNet-M
G-Memory (Ours)

69.40↑12.68
46.27↓10.45
53.44↓3.28
70.90↑14.18

62.37↑6.99
53.35↓2.03
54.32↓1.06
65.64↑10.26

14.45↑2.83
10.75↓0.87
12.11↑0.49
18.95↑7.33

32.34↑0.65
22.45↓9.24
30.12↓1.57
34.69↑3.00

60.20↑0.00
58.33↓1.87
61.10↑0.90
64.22↑4.02

47.75↑4.63
38.23↓4.89
42.22↓0.90
50.88↑7.76

No-memory
Voyager

51.49↑0.00
61.94↑10.45

57.53↑0.00
64.53↑7.00

12.18↑0.00
14.06↑1.88

28.57↑0.00
32.65↑4.08

60.29↑0.00
62.54↑2.25

42.01↑0.00
47.14↑5.13

MemoryBank

50.00↓1.49

60.15↑2.62

8.64↓3.54

33.67↑5.10

61.22↑0.93

42.74↑0.73

Generative

62.69↑11.20

65.49↑7.96

7.92↓4.26

29.59↑1.02

63.27↑2.98

45.79↑3.78

MetaGPT-M
ChatDev-M
MacNet-M
G-Memory (Ours)

63.70↑12.21
49.25↓2.24
53.44↑1.95
67.16↑15.67

65.27↑7.74
56.58↓0.95
56.14↓1.39
68.11↑10.58

16.03↑3.85
13.51↑1.33
13.59↑1.41
24.33↑12.15

31.00↑2.43
29.00↑0.43
27.89↓0.68
35.69↑7.12

59.33↓0.96
59.18↓1.11
59.20↓1.09
64.44↑4.15

47.07↑5.06
41.50↓0.51
42.05↑0.04
51.95↑9.94

Experiment

In this section, we conduct extensive experiments to answer: (RQ1) How does G-Memory perform
compared to existing single/multi-agent memory architectures? (RQ2) Does G-Memory incur excessive resource overhead? (RQ3) How sensitive is G-Memory to its key components and parameters?
5.1 Experiment Setup
Datasets and Benchmarks. To thoroughly evaluate the effectiveness of G-Memory, we adopt
five widely-adopted benchmarks across three domains: (1) Knowledge reasoning, including HotpotQA [76] and FEVER [77]; (2) Embodied action, including ALFWorld [78] and SciWorld [79];
(3) Game, namely PDDL [80]. Details on these benchmarks are in Appendix A.1.
Baselines. We select four representative single-agent memory baselines, including non-memory,
Voyager [16], MemoryBank [36], and Generative Agents [19], as well as three multi-agent memory
implementations from MetaGPT [21], ChatDev [46], and MacNet [47], denoted as MetaGPT-M,
ChatDev-M, and MacNet-M, respectively. Details are in Appendix A.2.
MAS and LLM Backbones. We select three representative multi-agent frameworks to integrate
with G-Memory and the baselines, including AutoGen [13], DyLAN [72], and MacNet [47]. More
details on the MAS setups are placed in Appendix A.3. For instantiating these MAS frameworks,
we adopt two open-source LLMs, Qwen-2.5-7b and Qwen-2.5-14b, as well as one proprietary
LLM, gpt-4o-mini. The deployment of Qwen series is via local instantiation using Ollama1 , and
GPT models are accessed via OpenAI APIs.
Parameter Configurations. We implement the embedding function v(·) in Equation (4) with
ALL -M INI LM-L6- V 2 [81]. The number of the most relevant interaction graphs M in Equation (7) is
set among {2, 3, 4, 5}, and the number of relevant queries k in Equation (4) is set among {1, 2}. The
detailed ablation study on hyper-parameters is placed in Section 5.4.
5.2

Main Results (RQ1)

Tables 1, 2 and 3 comprehensively report the performance of different memory architectures across
three LLM backbones and three MAS frameworks. We summarize the key observations as follows:
1

http://github.com/ollama/ollama

7

Performance (%)

ALFWorld + DyLAN

Token Cost (e+6)

ALFWorld + AutoGen

Token Cost (e+6)

Token Cost (e+6)

PDDL + AutoGen

Performance (%)

Performance (%)

Figure 3: Cost analysis of G-Memory. We showcase the performance versus the overall system token
cost when combined with different memory architectures.
Takeaway ➊: G-Memory consistently improves performance across all task domains and MAS
frameworks. As shown in Table 2, when integrated with AutoGen and MacNet (powered by
Qwen-2.5-7b), G-Memory surpasses the best-performing single-/multi-agent memory baselines
by an average of 6.8% and 5.5%, respectively. With the more capable Qwen-2.5-14b, the
improvement is even more pronounced: in Table 3, G-Memory boosts MacNet’s performance on
ALFWorld from 58.21% to 79.10%, achieving a substantial 20.89% gain.
Takeaway ➋: Multi-agent systems demand specialized memory designs. A thorough examination
of existing baselines reveals a surprising insight: most memory mechanisms fail to consistently
benefit MAS settings. In Table 2, baselines such as Voyager and MemoryBank degrade AutoGen’s
performance on PDDL by as much as 4.17% and 1.34%, respectively. We attribute this to the inability
of these methods to provide agent role-specific memory support, which is essential in the PDDL
strategic game tasks, where effective division of labor is critical to success. Even MAS-oriented
designs, such as ChatDev-M, result in a 2.32% performance drop when applied to MacNet+SciWorld.
We attribute this to ChatDev-M’s narrow memory scope—storing only the execution results of past
queries, which provides limited utility in embodied action environments. These findings highlight
the necessity of G-Memory’s core characteristics: role-specific memory cues, abstracted high-level
insights, and trajectory condensation—all of which are critical for effective memory in MAS.
5.3 Cost Analysis (RQ2)
To evaluate the efficiency of G-Memory in terms of token consumption, we visualize the performance
versus token cost trade-off across various settings, as shown in Figures 3 and 7. Our findings are:
Takeaway ➌: G-Memory achieves high-performing collective memory without excessive token
consumption. As depicted in Figure 3, G-Memory consistently delivers the highest performance
improvement (10.32% ↑ over no-memory setting on PDDL+AutoGen) while maintaining a modest
increase in token consumption (only 1.4 × 106 ). In contrast, MetaGPT-M incurred an additional
2.2 × 106 tokens for a mere 4.07% gain. This clearly demonstrates the token-efficiency of G-Memory.
5.4 Framework Analysis (RQ3)
Sensitivity Analysis. Regarding the hop expansion, as shown in Figure 4a, 1-hop expansion
consistently yields the best or near-best performance across tasks, with peak accuracies of 85.82%
(ALFWorld), 55.24% (PDDL) in AutoGen. In contrast, 2-hop and 3-hop settings often degrade
performance, e.g., PDDL drops to 49.79% (2-hop). This suggests that excessive hop expansion may
introduce irrelevant insights during memory upward traversal, impairing task-specific reasoning.
Similarly, Figure 4b shows that the optimal k is among {1, 2}. Larger k values (e.g., k=5) can
significantly degrade the system performance, e.g., 7.71% ↓ on ALFWorld+AutoGen and 2.5% ↓
on FEVER+DyLAN, indicating that retrieving more queries may introduce task-irrelevant noise.
Collectively, we employ 1-hop expansion and k ∈ {1, 2} throughout the experiments.
Ablation Study. Figure 4c presents an ablation of G-Memory by isolating the impact of the highQi |M |
level insight module (I S in Equation (6)) and fine-grained interactions ({Ĝinter
}i=1 in Equation (7)).
As shown, removing either part leads to a consistent performance drop. When only fine-grained
interactions are enabled, the average scores drop by 4.47% ↓ for AutoGen and 3.82% ↓ for DyLAN
8

MAS

Inter. Insi. PDDL FEVER
✔
◦ 54.46 63.27
AutoGen ◦
✔ 50.00 68.77
✔
✔ 55.24 71.43
DyLAN

(a) Sensitivity analysis on #hop.

(b) Sensitivity analysis on parameter k.

✔
◦
✔

◦
✔
✔

48.75
46.69
51.12

61.39
64.31
66.66

(c) Ablation study on two variants of G-Memory.

Figure 4: (a) Sensitivity analysis of the hop expansion in Equation (5); (b) Sensitivity analysis of
the number of selected queries k in Equation (4); (c) We study two variants of G-Memory: merely
providing high-level insights (i.e., the insights I S in Equation (6)) or fine-grained interactions (i.e.,
the core trajectories in Equation (7)). All the experiments here are done with Qwen-2.5-14b.
ALFWorld + AutoGen
Query
put a clean cloth
in countertop

HotpotQA + DyLAN

AutoGen Team
Ground
agent

Solver agent

Action
agent

Query

For
: After cleaning an item, ensure it is placed in
the designated storage location immediately to avoid
confusion or loss.

DyLAN Team

Question:
Are both Lygodium
or Maxillaria
a genus of orchids?

High-level Insights
For
: Ensure all required items are accessible,
clean them, and return them to their designated storage
locations or the specified location after use.

PDDL + MacNet

High-level Insights

Fine-grained Trajectory

Go to
Fridge
& Take
Egg

Execution
Success

...

Go to
microwave

: Ensure that blocks are clear and in the

Fine-grained Trajectory

Compressed Traj:

The goal is to satisfy the following conditions:

Task: b2 is on b3., b3 is on b1.
Compressed Traj:

...
Clean
first!

edge
agent

correct positions before attempting to stack them on
another block, because this prevents invalid actions and
ensures the blocks are placed correctly.

Task: Alejandro Springall, both film directors?"

Task: put a clean egg in microwave.
Compressed Traj:

MacNet Team

High-level Insights
For

Avoid mistakenly referring
verify that the search results are not mistakenly
referring to similar entities with similar names or
unrelated information.

Are Ruggero Deodato from Italy, and Mexican

Fine-grained Trajectory

Query
b1 is on b2., b2
is on b6., b3 is
on b7., b5 is on
b3., b6 is on
b5., b7 is on b4

Search
Identify Identify Re-search Passed
for Deodato Deodato Warning! for Deodato

...
Unstack b2 Check b1 Unstack b3 Check b3 Stack b2
from b3
and b3
from b1
and b2
on b3

Figure 5: Case study of G-Memory.
compared to the full method. Conversely, enabling only insights leads to smaller drops of 3.95%
and 3.39%. This indicates that while both components are contributive, interactions offer a slightly
greater impact, likely due to their preserving more fine-grained, dialogue-level contextual grounding.
5.5 Case Study
Figure 5 illustrates concrete memory cues provided by G-Memory across diverse tasks. For example, in
the ALFWorld+AutoGen setting, given the task query “put a clean cloth in countertop”, G-Memory
successfully retrieves a highly analogous historical query, “put a clean egg in microwave”—both
requiring the object to be in a clean state. Alongside this, G-Memory surfaces a critical trajectory
segment where the solver agent attempts to place the egg in the microwave before cleaning, prompting
the ground agent to intervene. This collaborative trajectory offers actionable guidance for the current
task. Moreover, the high-level insights retrieved by G-Memory prove equally valuable for task
execution. In the context of HotpotQA’s web search task, G-Memory retrieves an insight warning
against “mistakenly referring”, which helps prevent agents from incorrectly answering based on
similarly named individuals. Overall, G-Memory provides effective multi-level memory support
across varied domains, including embodied action, knowledge reasoning, and game environments.

6

Conclusion & Limitation

In this paper, we conduct a thorough examination of existing memory architectures designed for
multi-agent systems (MAS) and identify that their overly simplified designs fundamentally hinder
the systems’ capacity for self-evolution. To bridge this gap, we propose G-Memory, a hierarchical
memory framework that organizes the complex and extended interaction trajectories of MAS into
a three-tier graph hierarchy: the insight, query, and interaction graphs. G-Memory provides each
agent with customized and hierarchical memory cues, ranging from abstract, generalizable insights
9

to fine-grained, task-critical collaborative segments, and dynamically evolves its knowledge base
across episodes. Extensive experiments demonstrate that G-Memory can be seamlessly integrated
into state-of-the-art MAS frameworks, significantly enhancing their self-evolution capability, e.g., up
to 20.89% ↑ improvement on embodied action tasks. Limitations: Although G-Memory has been
evaluated across three domains and five benchmarks, further validation on more diverse tasks (e.g.,
medical QA) would strengthen its soundness, which we leave for future work.

References
[1] James P Walsh and Gerardo Rivera Ungson. Organizational memory. Academy of management
review, 16(1):57–91, 1991.
[2] Danny Driess, Fei Xia, Mehdi SM Sajjadi, Corey Lynch, Aakanksha Chowdhery, Ayzaan Wahid,
Jonathan Tompson, Quan Vuong, Tianhe Yu, Wenlong Huang, et al. Palm-e: An embodied
multimodal language model. 2023.
[3] Shihao Wang, Zhiding Yu, Xiaohui Jiang, Shiyi Lan, Min Shi, Nadine Chang, Jan Kautz, Ying
Li, and Jose M Alvarez. Omnidrive: A holistic llm-agent framework for autonomous driving
with 3d perception, reasoning and planning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.01533, 2024.
[4] Sipeng Zheng, Jiazheng Liu, Yicheng Feng, and Zongqing Lu. Steve-eye: Equipping llm-based
embodied agents with visual perception in open worlds. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.13255,
2023.
[5] Yuxi Wei, Zi Wang, Yifan Lu, Chenxin Xu, Changxing Liu, Hao Zhao, Siheng Chen, and
Yanfeng Wang. Editable scene simulation for autonomous driving via collaborative llm-agents.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
pages 15077–15087, 2024.
[6] Yuqi Zhu, Shuofei Qiao, Yixin Ou, Shumin Deng, Shiwei Lyu, Yue Shen, Lei Liang, Jinjie Gu,
Huajun Chen, and Ningyu Zhang. Knowagent: Knowledge-augmented planning for llm-based
agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.03101, 2024.
[7] Lutfi Eren Erdogan, Nicholas Lee, Sehoon Kim, Suhong Moon, Hiroki Furuta, Gopala Anumanchipalli, Kurt Keutzer, and Amir Gholami. Plan-and-act: Improving planning of agents for
long-horizon tasks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.09572, 2025.
[8] Xu Huang, Weiwen Liu, Xiaolong Chen, Xingmei Wang, Hao Wang, Defu Lian, Yasheng Wang,
Ruiming Tang, and Enhong Chen. Understanding the planning of llm agents: A survey. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2402.02716, 2024.
[9] Pranav Putta, Edmund Mills, Naman Garg, Sumeet Motwani, Chelsea Finn, Divyansh Garg, and
Rafael Rafailov. Agent q: Advanced reasoning and learning for autonomous ai agents. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2408.07199, 2024.
[10] Tula Masterman, Sandi Besen, Mason Sawtell, and Alex Chao. The landscape of emerging
ai agent architectures for reasoning, planning, and tool calling: A survey. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2404.11584, 2024.
[11] Manling Li, Shiyu Zhao, Qineng Wang, Kangrui Wang, Yu Zhou, Sanjana Srivastava, Cem
Gokmen, Tony Lee, Erran Li Li, Ruohan Zhang, et al. Embodied agent interface: Benchmarking
llms for embodied decision making. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
37:100428–100534, 2024.
[12] Yijun Yang, Tianyi Zhou, Kanxue Li, Dapeng Tao, Lusong Li, Li Shen, Xiaodong He, Jing
Jiang, and Yuhui Shi. Embodied multi-modal agent trained by an llm from a parallel textworld.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages
26275–26285, 2024.
[13] Qingyun Wu, Gagan Bansal, Jieyu Zhang, Yiran Wu, Shaokun Zhang, Erkang Zhu, Beibin Li,
Li Jiang, Xiaoyun Zhang, and Chi Wang. Autogen: Enabling next-gen llm applications via
multi-agent conversation framework, August 01, 2023 2023.
10

[14] Daya Guo, Qihao Zhu, Dejian Yang, Zhenda Xie, Kai Dong, Wentao Zhang, Guanting Chen,
Xiao Bi, Y. Wu, Y. K. Li, Fuli Luo, Yingfei Xiong, and Wenfeng Liang. Deepseek-coder: When
the large language model meets programming – the rise of code intelligence, 2024.
[15] Sirui Hong, Yizhang Lin, Bang Liu, Bangbang Liu, Binhao Wu, Ceyao Zhang, Chenxing Wei,
Danyang Li, Jiaqi Chen, Jiayi Zhang, et al. Data interpreter: An llm agent for data science.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.18679, 2024.
[16] Guanzhi Wang, Yuqi Xie, Yunfan Jiang, Ajay Mandlekar, Chaowei Xiao, Yuke Zhu, Linxi Fan,
and Anima Anandkumar. Voyager: An Open-Ended Embodied Agent with Large Language
Models. arXiv e-prints, page arXiv:2305.16291, May 2023.
[17] Long Chen, Oleg Sinavski, Jan Hünermann, Alice Karnsund, Andrew James Willmott, Danny
Birch, Daniel Maund, and Jamie Shotton. Driving with llms: Fusing object-level vector modality
for explainable autonomous driving. In 2024 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation (ICRA), pages 14093–14100. IEEE, 2024.
[18] Yuan Sun, Navid Salami Pargoo, Peter Jin, and Jorge Ortiz. Optimizing autonomous driving for
safety: A human-centric approach with llm-enhanced rlhf. In Companion of the 2024 on ACM
International Joint Conference on Pervasive and Ubiquitous Computing, pages 76–80, 2024.
[19] Joon Sung Park, Joseph C. O’Brien, Carrie J. Cai, Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and
Michael S. Bernstein. Generative agents: Interactive simulacra of human behavior, April 01,
2023 2023.
[20] Yilun Du, Shuang Li, Antonio Torralba, Joshua B. Tenenbaum, and Igor Mordatch. Improving
factuality and reasoning in language models through multiagent debate. CoRR, abs/2305.14325,
2023.
[21] Sirui Hong, Xiawu Zheng, Jonathan Chen, Yuheng Cheng, Jinlin Wang, Ceyao Zhang, Zili
Wang, Steven Ka Shing Yau, Zijuan Lin, Liyang Zhou, Chenyu Ran, Lingfeng Xiao, and
Chenglin Wu. Metagpt: Meta programming for multi-agent collaborative framework, August
01, 2023 2023.
[22] Marvin Minsky. Society of mind. Simon and Schuster, 1988.
[23] Push Singh. Examining the society of mind. Comput. Artif. Intell., 22(6):521–543, 2003.
[24] Guohao Li, Hasan Hammoud, Hani Itani, Dmitrii Khizbullin, and Bernard Ghanem. CAMEL:
communicative agents for "mind" exploration of large language model society. In NeurIPS,
2023.
[25] Zhenhailong Wang, Shaoguang Mao, Wenshan Wu, Tao Ge, Furu Wei, and Heng Ji. Unleashing
cognitive synergy in large language models: A task-solving agent through multi-persona selfcollaboration, July 01, 2023 2023. work in progress.
[26] Taicheng Guo, Xiuying Chen, Yaqi Wang, Ruidi Chang, Shichao Pei, Nitesh V. Chawla, Olaf
Wiest, and Xiangliang Zhang. Large language model based multi-agents: A survey of progress
and challenges. CoRR, abs/2402.01680, 2024.
[27] Pouya Pezeshkpour, Eser Kandogan, Nikita Bhutani, Sajjadur Rahman, Tom Mitchell, and
Estevam Hruschka. Reasoning capacity in multi-agent systems: Limitations, challenges and
human-centered solutions. CoRR, abs/2402.01108, 2024.
[28] Giorgio Piatti, Zhijing Jin, Max Kleiman-Weiner, Bernhard Schölkopf, Mrinmaya Sachan, and
Rada Mihalcea. Cooperate or collapse: Emergence of sustainability behaviors in a society of
llm agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.16698, 2024.
[29] Rafael Pina, Varuna De Silva, and Corentin Artaud. Discovering causality for efficient cooperation in multi-agent environments. CoRR, abs/2306.11846, 2023.
[30] Guibin Zhang, Yanwei Yue, Zhixun Li, Sukwon Yun, Guancheng Wan, Kun Wang, Dawei
Cheng, Jeffrey Xu Yu, and Tianlong Chen. Cut the crap: An economical communication
pipeline for llm-based multi-agent systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.02506, 2024.
11

[31] Yanwei Yue, Guibin Zhang, Boyang Liu, Guancheng Wan, Kun Wang, Dawei Cheng, and
Yiyan Qi. Masrouter: Learning to route llms for multi-agent systems. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2502.11133, 2025.
[32] Qinlin Zhao, Jindong Wang, Yixuan Zhang, Yiqiao Jin, Kaijie Zhu, Hao Chen, and Xing Xie.
Competeai: Understanding the competition behaviors in large language model-based agents.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.17512, 2023.
[33] Tian Liang, Zhiwei He, Wenxiang Jiao, Xing Wang, Yan Wang, Rui Wang, Yujiu Yang,
Zhaopeng Tu, and Shuming Shi. Encouraging divergent thinking in large language models
through multi-agent debate. CoRR, abs/2305.19118, 2023.
[34] Wei Wang, Dan Zhang, Tao Feng, Boyan Wang, and Jie Tang. Battleagentbench: A benchmark
for evaluating cooperation and competition capabilities of language models in multi-agent
systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.15971, 2024.
[35] Chuanyang Zheng, Zhengying Liu, Enze Xie, Zhenguo Li, and Yu Li. Progressive-hint prompting improves reasoning in large language models, April 01, 2023 2023. Tech Report.
[36] Wanjun Zhong, Lianghong Guo, Qiqi Gao, He Ye, and Yanlin Wang. Memorybank: Enhancing
large language models with long-term memory. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on
Artificial Intelligence, volume 38, pages 19724–19731, 2024.
[37] Charles Packer, Vivian Fang, Shishir_G Patil, Kevin Lin, Sarah Wooders, and Joseph_E Gonzalez. Memgpt: Towards llms as operating systems. 2023.
[38] Ali Modarressi, Abdullatif Köksal, Ayyoob Imani, Mohsen Fayyaz, and Hinrich Schütze. Memllm: Finetuning llms to use an explicit read-write memory. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.11672,
2024.
[39] Zeyu Zhang, Xiaohe Bo, Chen Ma, Rui Li, Xu Chen, Quanyu Dai, Jieming Zhu, Zhenhua Dong,
and Ji-Rong Wen. A survey on the memory mechanism of large language model based agents.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.13501, 2024.
[40] Chenxu Hu, Jie Fu, Chenzhuang Du, Simian Luo, Junbo Zhao, and Hang Zhao. Chatdb:
Augmenting llms with databases as their symbolic memory. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.03901,
2023.
[41] Junru Lu, Siyu An, Mingbao Lin, Gabriele Pergola, Yulan He, Di Yin, Xing Sun, and Yunsheng
Wu. Memochat: Tuning llms to use memos for consistent long-range open-domain conversation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.08239, 2023.
[42] Yancheng Wang, Ziyan Jiang, Zheng Chen, Fan Yang, Yingxue Zhou, Eunah Cho, Xing Fan,
Xiaojiang Huang, Yanbin Lu, and Yingzhen Yang. Recmind: Large language model powered
agent for recommendation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.14296, 2023.
[43] Andrew Zhao, Daniel Huang, Quentin Xu, Matthieu Lin, Yong-Jin Liu, and Gao Huang. Expel:
Llm agents are experiential learners. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial
Intelligence, volume 38, pages 19632–19642, 2024.
[44] Yuan Li, Yixuan Zhang, and Lichao Sun. Metaagents: Simulating interactions of human
behaviors for llm-based task-oriented coordination via collaborative generative agents. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2310.06500, 2023.
[45] Chen Gao, Xiaochong Lan, Zhihong Lu, Jinzhu Mao, Jinghua Piao, Huandong Wang, Depeng
Jin, and Yong Li. S3: Social-network simulation system with large language model-empowered
agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.14984, 2023.
[46] Chen Qian, Xin Cong, Cheng Yang, Weize Chen, Yusheng Su, Juyuan Xu, Zhiyuan Liu, and
Maosong Sun. Communicative agents for software development, July 01, 2023 2023. 25 pages,
9 figures, 2 tables.
[47] Chen Qian, Zihao Xie, Yifei Wang, Wei Liu, Yufan Dang, Zhuoyun Du, Weize Chen, Cheng
Yang, Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong Sun. Scaling large-language-model-based multi-agent collaboration. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.07155, 2024.
12

[48] Mingchen Zhuge, Wenyi Wang, Louis Kirsch, Francesco Faccio, Dmitrii Khizbullin, and Jürgen
Schmidhuber. Gptswarm: Language agents as optimizable graphs. In Forty-first International
Conference on Machine Learning, 2024.
[49] Shengran Hu, Cong Lu, and Jeff Clune. Automated design of agentic systems. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2408.08435, 2024.
[50] Jiayi Zhang, Jinyu Xiang, Zhaoyang Yu, Fengwei Teng, Xionghui Chen, Jiaqi Chen, Mingchen
Zhuge, Xin Cheng, Sirui Hong, Jinlin Wang, Bingnan Zheng, Bang Liu, Yuyu Luo, and Chenglin
Wu. AFlow: Automating Agentic Workflow Generation, October 2024. arXiv:2410.10762.
[51] Guibin Zhang, Luyang Niu, Junfeng Fang, Kun Wang, Lei Bai, and Xiang Wang. Multi-agent
architecture search via agentic supernet. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.04180, 2025.
[52] Zhangyue Yin, Qiushi Sun, Cheng Chang, Qipeng Guo, Junqi Dai, Xuan-Jing Huang, and
Xipeng Qiu. Exchange-of-thought: Enhancing large language model capabilities through
cross-model communication. In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing, pages 15135–15153, 2023.
[53] Lei Wang, Chen Ma, Xueyang Feng, Zeyu Zhang, Hao Yang, Jingsen Zhang, Zhiyuan Chen,
Jiakai Tang, Xu Chen, Yankai Lin, Wayne Xin Zhao, Zhewei Wei, and Ji-Rong Wen. A survey
on large language model based autonomous agents. Front. Comput. Sci., 18, 2024.
[54] Zhiheng Xi, Wenxiang Chen, Xin Guo, Wei He, Yiwen Ding, Boyang Hong, Ming Zhang,
Junzhe Wang, Senjie Jin, Enyu Zhou, Rui Zheng, Xiaoran Fan, Xiao Wang, Limao Xiong,
Yuhao Zhou, Weiran Wang, Changhao Jiang, Yicheng Zou, Xiangyang Liu, Zhangyue Yin,
Shihan Dou, Rongxiang Weng, Wensen Cheng, Qi Zhang, Wenjuan Qin, Yongyan Zheng,
Xipeng Qiu, Xuanjing Huan, and Tao Gui. The rise and potential of large language model based
agents: A survey. arxiv preprint, abs/2309.07864, 2023.
[55] Chen Gao, Xiaochong Lan, Nian Li, Yuan Yuan, Jingtao Ding, Zhilun Zhou, Fengli Xu, and
Yong Li. Large language models empowered agent-based modeling and simulation: A survey
and perspectives. CoRR, abs/2312.11970, 2023.
[56] Xinyi Li, Sai Wang, Siqi Zeng, Yu Wu, and Yi Yang. A survey on llm-based multi-agent
systems: workflow, infrastructure, and challenges. Vicinagearth, 1(1):9, 2024.
[57] Longtao Zheng, Rundong Wang, Xinrun Wang, and Bo An. Synapse: Trajectory-as-exemplar
prompting with memory for computer control. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.07863, 2023.
[58] Xizhou Zhu, Yuntao Chen, Hao Tian, Chenxin Tao, Weijie Su, Chenyu Yang, Gao Huang, Bin
Li, Lewei Lu, Xiaogang Wang, et al. Ghost in the minecraft: Generally capable agents for
open-world environments via large language models with text-based knowledge and memory.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.17144, 2023.
[59] Xiangru Tang, Tianyu Hu, Muyang Ye, Yanjun Shao, Xunjian Yin, Siru Ouyang, Wangchunshu
Zhou, Pan Lu, Zhuosheng Zhang, Yilun Zhao, et al. Chemagent: Self-updating library in large
language models improves chemical reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.06590, 2025.
[60] Noah Shinn, Beck Labash, and Ashwin Gopinath. Reflexion: an autonomous agent with
dynamic memory and self-reflection. arXiv preprint, abs/2303.11366, 2023.
[61] Wujiang Xu, Kai Mei, Hang Gao, Juntao Tan, Zujie Liang, and Yongfeng Zhang. A-mem:
Agentic memory for llm agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.12110, 2025.
[62] Prateek Chhikara, Dev Khant, Saket Aryan, Taranjeet Singh, and Deshraj Yadav. Mem0:
Building production-ready ai agents with scalable long-term memory. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2504.19413, 2025.
[63] Rana Salama, Jason Cai, Michelle Yuan, Anna Currey, Monica Sunkara, Yi Zhang, and Yassine
Benajiba. Meminsight: Autonomous memory augmentation for llm agents. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2503.21760, 2025.
13

[64] Junlin Wang, Jue Wang, Ben Athiwaratkun, Ce Zhang, and James Zou. Mixture-of-agents
enhances large language model capabilities. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.04692, 2024.
[65] Wangchunshu Zhou, Yixin Ou, Shengwei Ding, Long Li, Jialong Wu, Tiannan Wang, Jiamin
Chen, Shuai Wang, Xiaohua Xu, Ningyu Zhang, et al. Symbolic learning enables self-evolving
agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.18532, 2024.
[66] Xuechen Liang, Meiling Tao, Yinghui Xia, Tianyu Shi, Jun Wang, and JingSong Yang.
Self-evolving agents with reflective and memory-augmented abilities. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2409.00872, 2024.
[67] Weize Chen, Yusheng Su, Jingwei Zuo, Cheng Yang, Chenfei Yuan, Chen Qian, Chi-Min Chan,
Yujia Qin, Yaxi Lu, Ruobing Xie, Zhiyuan Liu, Maosong Sun, and Jie Zhou. Agentverse:
Facilitating multi-agent collaboration and exploring emergent behaviors in agents, 2023.
[68] Yue Hu, Yuzhu Cai, Yaxin Du, Xinyu Zhu, Xiangrui Liu, Zijie Yu, Yuchen Hou, Shuo Tang,
and Siheng Chen. Self-evolving multi-agent collaboration networks for software development.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.16946, 2024.
[69] Guibin Zhang, Yanwei Yue, Xiangguo Sun, Guancheng Wan, Miao Yu, Junfeng Fang, Kun
Wang, Tianlong Chen, and Dawei Cheng. G-designer: Architecting multi-agent communication
topologies via graph neural networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.11782, 2024.
[70] Siyu Yuan, Kaitao Song, Jiangjie Chen, Xu Tan, Dongsheng Li, and Deqing Yang. Evoagent: Towards automatic multi-agent generation via evolutionary algorithms. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.14228, 2024.
[71] Guibin Zhang, Kaijie Chen, Guancheng Wan, Heng Chang, Hong Cheng, Kun Wang, Shuyue
Hu, and Lei Bai. Evoflow: Evolving diverse agentic workflows on the fly. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2502.07373, 2025.
[72] Zijun Liu, Yanzhe Zhang, Peng Li, Yang Liu, and Diyi Yang. Dynamic llm-agent network:
An llm-agent collaboration framework with agent team optimization. CoRR, abs/2310.02170,
2023.
[73] Kuansan Wang, Zhihong Shen, Chiyuan Huang, Chieh-Han Wu, Yuxiao Dong, and Anshul
Kanakia. Microsoft academic graph: When experts are not enough. Quantitative Science
Studies, 1(1):396–413, 2020.
[74] Wanjia Zhao, Mert Yuksekgonul, Shirley Wu, and James Zou. Sirius: Self-improving multiagent systems via bootstrapped reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.04780, 2025.
[75] Heng Zhou, Hejia Geng, Xiangyuan Xue, Zhenfei Yin, and Lei Bai. Reso: A reward-driven selforganizing llm-based multi-agent system for reasoning tasks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.02390,
2025.
[76] Zhilin Yang, Peng Qi, Saizheng Zhang, Yoshua Bengio, William W Cohen, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Christopher D Manning. Hotpotqa: A dataset for diverse, explainable multi-hop
question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:1809.09600, 2018.
[77] James Thorne, Andreas Vlachos, Christos Christodoulopoulos, and Arpit Mittal. Fever: a
large-scale dataset for fact extraction and verification. arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.05355, 2018.
[78] Mohit Shridhar, Xingdi Yuan, Marc-Alexandre Côté, Yonatan Bi