# FULL TEXT — CWM: An Open-Weights LLM for Research on Code Generation with World Models

https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.02387v1

CWM: An Open-Weights LLM for Research on Code Generation with World Models 

 1 Introduction 
 
 2 Code world model datasets 
 
 2.1 Executable repository images: building repositories at scale 
 2.2 Python tracing: neural code interpretation data 
 2.3 ForagerAgent: agentic midtraining data generation 

 3 Examples of code world modeling 
 
 4 CWM : architecture, pre-training, and scaling laws 
 
 4.1 Architecture and hyper-parameters 
 4.2 Two-stage pre-training 
 4.3 Scaling laws 

 5 Post-training: SFT, RL algorithms and environments 
 
 5.1 SFT 
 5.2 RL algorithm 
 
 5.3 RL environments data 
 
 5.3.1 Agentic SWE 
 5.3.2 Coding 
 5.3.3 Agentic coding 
 5.3.4 Mathematics 

 5.4 Joint RL 

 6 Code and infrastructure 
 
 6.1 Techniques for efficient training 
 6.2 RL systems 

 7 Experimental results 
 
 7.1 The impact of CWM data 
 7.2 Agentic evaluation 
 7.3 Execution trace prediction 
 7.4 Program termination prediction 
 7.5 Algorithmic complexity prediction 
 7.6 Code and mathematical reasoning 
 7.7 Non-reasoning evaluations 

 8 Transparency, Risks Limitations 
 
 8.1 Transparency on external models and data 
 8.2 Code World Model Preparedness Report 
 8.3 Limitations future research 

 9 Conclusion 
 10 Acknowledgments 
 11 CWM Examples 
 12 RL algorithm 
 13 Activ image-building pipeline 
 
 14 Hyper-parameter scaling laws 
 
 14.1 Derivation of per-token compute formula 
 14.2 Quasi-random search for batch size and learning rate 

 15 RL data decontamination 
 16 Mathematical expression comparison for RL 
 17 Prompting guide 
 18 Formal mathematics datamix 
 19 RULER evaluation 
 20 Agent capabilities learnt during RL training 

 \metadata 
 [Inference Code] github.com/facebookresearch/cwm 
 \metadata [Model Weights] ai.meta.com/resources/models-and-libraries/cwm-downloads ,

 huggingface.co/facebook/cwm ,
 ../cwm-sft ,
 ../cwm-pretrain 

 CWM : An Open-Weights LLM for Research on Code Generation with World Models 

 Meta FAIR CodeGen Team

 ( September 29, 2025 ) 
 
 Abstract 
 We release Code World Model ( CWM ), a 32-billion-parameter open-weights LLM, to advance research on code generation with world models.
To improve code understanding beyond what can be learned from training on static code alone, we mid-train CWM on a large amount of observation-action trajectories from Python interpreter and agentic Docker environments, and perform extensive multi-task reasoning RL in verifiable coding, math, and multi-turn software engineering environments.
With CWM , we provide a strong testbed for researchers to explore the opportunities world modeling affords for improving code generation with reasoning and planning in computational environments.
We present first steps of how world models can benefit agentic coding, enable step-by-step simulation of Python code execution, and show early results of how reasoning can benefit from the latter.
 CWM is a dense, decoder-only LLM trained with a context size of up to 131   k 131\text{\,}\mathrm{k} tokens.
Independent of its world modeling capabilities, CWM offers strong performance on general coding and math tasks: it reaches pass@1 scores of 65.8   % 65.8\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} on SWE-bench Verified (with test-time scaling), 68.6   % 68.6\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} on LiveCodeBench, 96.6   % 96.6\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} on Math-500, and 76.0   % 76.0\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} on AIME 2024.
To support further research on code world modeling, we release model checkpoints after mid-training, SFT, and RL. 

 1 Introduction 
 
 Software development is one of the domains where Large Language Models (LLMs) have already had a significant real-world impact (Cui et al., 2024 ; Bick et al., 2024 ) .
They have quickly been adopted into the workflows of software engineers worldwide, and their capabilities are advancing fast: from only supporting programmers with small snippets of code to fixing issues or writing code bases autonomously (Yeverechyahu et al., 2024 ; Handa et al., 2025 ) .
However, reliably generating high-quality code remains a challenge even for the current generation of LLMs, with benchmarks consistently revealing shortcomings upon release (Hendrycks et al., 2021a ; Chen et al., 2021 ; Aider Team, 2025 ; Jimenez et al., 2024 ) . 

 We believe that advancing code generation with LLMs may require new training and modeling paradigms. Typically, code is treated the same as any other text data during pre-training: the model learns to predict code line by line, from left to right and top to bottom. We think this is not sufficient – to master coding, one must understand not just what code looks like but what it does when executed. Such skill is instrumental to the everyday work of software engineers: at a local level, they understand how the execution of a line of code changes the state of the local variables, and, at a global level, they can make predictions about how changes to a codebase affect program outputs. Yet, teaching LLMs such code world modeling capabilities is typically not considered before post-training. 

 Figure 1 : Overview of the CWM training stages and the model checkpoints that we release. We generally report performance of the final CWM (instruct, RL trained) model, except where otherwise stated. 

 We release Code World Model ( CWM ), a new LLM for code generation and reasoning that has been trained on large amounts of code world modeling data.
Concretely, CWM is mid-trained on two different kinds of observation-action trajectories that capture important aspects of software development: Python code execution traces and agentic interactions with Docker environments. Mid-training on such data at scale should help improve coding performance by grounding our model’s predictions in the underlying dynamical systems and provide a superior starting point for RL. 

 For the Python execution data, actions are Python statements and observations contain the contents of the local variables. By training CWM on a trajectory of observation-action pairs conditioned on the code only as context, we directly teach the model how the execution of a line of Python affects the state of the local variables. Our premise here is that teaching CWM the semantics and not just syntax of programs should help with writing code as well as with reasoning tasks like verification, testing, and debugging. 

 We also train CWM on a large-scale collection of synthetically generated agentic interactions with computational environments. These trajectories are generated with our so-called ForagerAgent, which “forages” for data covering agentic software engineering scenarios such as implementing missing functionality or fixing bugs from error messages. Actions here are shell-like commands or code edits generated by the agent, and observations are responses from the running environment. While it is not uncommon for recent models to include similar data, this is mostly done at smaller scale during post-training (Yang et al., 2025b ) .
Data from ForagerAgent, on the other hand, is large scale and included already during mid-training, helping shape internal representations ahead of post-training. 

 CWM uses a dense, decoder-only Transformer architecture (Vaswani et al., 2017 ; Radford et al., 2018 ) with 32   B 32\text{\,}\mathrm{B} parameters, interleaved sliding window attention supporting up to 131   k 131\text{\,}\mathrm{k} tokens context size, and is trained over pre-, mid-, and post-training phases (see Figure ˜ 1 ). With quantization, inference with CWM can be performed on a single 80   GB 80\text{\,}\mathrm{G}\mathrm{B} NVIDIA H100.
Beyond world modeling capabilities, CWM achieves strong performance on general and agentic coding and reasoning tasks relative to other open-weights models of comparable size: it reaches pass@1 scores of 65.8   % 65.8\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} on SWE-bench Verified (with test-time scaling; see Figure ˜ 2 ), 68.6   % 68.6\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} on LiveCodeBench-v5, 96.6   % 96.6\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} on Math-500, 76.0   % 76.0\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} on AIME 2024, and 94.3   % 94.3\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} on CruxEval Output. 

 First and foremost, the release of CWM is meant to enable novel research on improving code generation with world modeling.
We are excited by this vision and our report provides early supportive evidence: we give examples of how world models can benefit agentic coding, enable step-by-step simulation of Python code execution, and show early results of how reasoning can benefit from the latter.
However, we believe the best is yet to come and hope to join forces with the open source research community to explore how world models can be used to leverage reasoning and planning to improve code generation.
To this end, we release both the final weights and intermediate checkpoints under a noncommercial research license.
Given CWM ’s competitive performance, we conducted a preparedness assessment which concluded that CWM is unlikely to increase catastrophic risks beyond those present in the current model ecosystem. 1 1 1 See ai.meta.com/research/publications/cwm-preparedness and Section   8 for details. 

 Figure 2 : 
On SWE-bench Verified, CWM outperforms open-weight models with similar parameter counts and is even competitive with much larger or closed-weight LLMs.
The base score for CWM is computed with a single attempt per instance (no retries, majority voting, or parallel candidates), averaged over multiple runs to reduce variance.
For “Test Time Scaling”, we generate multiple candidates in parallel and then submit one patch based on ranking.
The “Test Time Scaling” score for GPT-oss models is high reasoning budget, while the lower score is low .
(*: GPT-5 and GPT-oss use a custom subset of 477 477 problems, while CWM is evaluated on the full set of 500 500 problems.)

 2 Code world model datasets 
 
 CWM is trained on a large variety of datasets across pre-, mid-, and post-training phases. We focus strongly on code and code world modeling data across all stages of training. We highlight two large-scale data collection efforts that empower CWM ’s world modeling capabilities: Python execution traces and ForagerAgent. We refer to Section ˜ 4 for more traditional ingredients in our datamixes. 

 2.1 Executable repository images: building repositories at scale 
 
 Figure 3 : CWM format for Python traces. Given a source code context and a marker of the trace starting point, CWM predicts a series of stack frames representing the Program states and the actions (executed code). 

 A core prerequisite for capturing Python execution traces and agentic trajectories in real-world software engineering tasks is executing code in repositories at scale. For isolation and repeatability, we build these repositories as Docker containers, referred to as executable repository images . These images contain a preconfigured environment capable of running repository code and tests without additional setup.
As manually building arbitrary GitHub repositories cannot scale to our desired dataset size, we apply both LLM- and CI-assisted methods. 

 For the former, an LLM-backed agent, denoted as RepoAgent, was tasked with setting up the development environment of a target repository, finding test files, and ensuring that a significant number of them could run and pass. To support its efforts, we provide RepoAgent with human-readable documentation extracted from the target repository. Although this further improves RepoAgent’s success rates, human-targeted documentation can suffer from inaccuracies due to lack of verifiability and insufficient maintenance incentives. In contrast, machine-targeted instructions must remain accurate for successful builds, with platforms like GitHub immediately signaling failures. 

 Therefore, we also developed the Activ (Act in virtual) pipeline to repurpose GitHub Actions CI execution for building executable repository images. This pipeline runs the workflows locally via the act (Lee, 2019 ) library. Since many GitHub Actions workflows are not designed for third-party execution and not limited to CI builds, we modify the target repository’s source code and trigger an early exit after the completion of a single successful build.
As all GitHub Actions workflow jobs run simultaneously in individual containers and the build state is transient, we add or modify the repository’s pytest configuration files, to inject a fixture that is automatically run at test-execution time. This fixture captures the build state of the container running unit tests. We then commit and push the resulting image from each repository, as further detailed in Section ˜ 13 .
Running both RepoAgent and Activ methods in parallel, we created over 35   k 35\text{\,}\mathrm{k} unique executable repository images. 

 2.2 Python tracing: neural code interpretation data 
 
 The first type of CWM data we present is memory tracing of Python programs. This involves gathering executable functions or executable repository images, and running them using different IO pairs or CI tests, while capturing the state of the memory, chiefly the local variables, after each line is executed. This process enables us to align code and execution trace to simulate observation-action data within the computational environment. Prior work empirically shows this approach is beneficial in improving general code generation and understanding capabilities (Armengol-Estapé et al., 2025 ; Zhang et al., ) . Neural code interpretation further has the potential to go beyond traditional interpreters, with applications such as tracing through unexecutable code or combining it with reasoning capabilities.
Next, we describe the different sources from which we gather execution trace data. 

 Function-level tracing. We collect a dataset of Python functions from online sources and automatically generate input-output pairs with a combination of fuzzing and prompting Llama3-70B-Instruct. Our tracing process captures the state of the Python program (interpreter stack frames) at different intermediate execution points, corresponding to events of the Python interpreter (e.g., executed lines, return statements, exceptions). The final dataset contains over 120   M 120\text{\,}\mathrm{M} traced Python functions. 

 We post-process the raw traces to construct observation-action pairs. The observation contains local variables and stack frame metadata immediately prior to executing a line of code, the action is the specific Python line being executed, and the subsequent observation captures the resulting local variable states and additional event metadata such as return statements; we disregard global variables and external side effects. The variable values that do not change with respect to the previous step are summarized with an ellipsis. We prefix the trace data with the source code context. 

 Figure ˜ 3 illustrates the CWM format for Python traces. Given a Python code context and a marker of the tracing initial point, the model follows with a series of Python stack frame predictions (in the form of a JSON-formatted dictionary with the local variables) and the corresponding actions (i.e., the part of the code that is being executed). The frame, action, and argument separators, as well as the trace context start indicator, are represented using custom tokens.
We refer the reader to Section ˜ 11 for trace prediction examples and Section ˜ 17 for a specification of this trace representation format.
We re-use both the tracing app and trace formatting for all other execution trace data described in the remainder of this section. 

 CodeContests solutions tracing. We also generate tracing data for solutions to competitive programming problems. Concretely, we use Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct to generate Python solutions to training set problems in CodeContests (Li et al., 2022 ) , reusing the framework of Gehring et al. ( 2025 ) . Generations are filtered to ensure a balance of incorrect and correct submissions, leading to an overall count of 262   k 262\text{\,}\mathrm{k} . We trace these solutions with inputs from the provided unit tests and filter out long traces with more than 10   k 10\text{\,}\mathrm{k} line events or large traces taking up more than 1   MB 1\text{\,}\mathrm{M}\mathrm{B} disk space, leaving us with 33   k 33\text{\,}\mathrm{k} effective code snippets and 70   k 70\text{\,}\mathrm{k} traces. 

 Repository-level tracing. We also performed Python execution tracing for the unit tests of more than 21   k 21\text{\,}\mathrm{k} available and traceable repository images. For a subset of these repositories, we use the repository’s git log to randomly select additional commits prior to our built commit. Since the build environment is configured for the current commit’s dependencies, older commits may fail to execute. We attempted tracing for up to 40 40 historical commits per repository but capped successful traces at 4 4 commits per repository to avoid over-representation of any single repository. This process resulted in around 70   k 70\text{\,}\mathrm{k} execution-traced commits. 

 We post-process raw traces in two steps. First, we “episodify” our traces, extracting function-level traces from raw pytest traces with configurable stack depth and stochastic step-in probability. When stochastic step-in occurs, function calls are probabilistically included in their parent trace rather than a separate episode to simulate variable execution depth. In a second step, we then gather and compress the source code context from the target repository that is necessary for predicting the observation-action trajectory.
To the resulting context-trace pair, we then apply the same CWM formatting as before. 

 Natural language tracing. Lastly, we generate a dataset of step-by-step descriptions of Python code execution in natural language rather than our strict JSON-like format from before. Natural language explanations of code execution are closer in domain to other LLM tasks, which we hope will simplify knowledge transfer to other context such as reasoning in code generation. This less-structured format also has other advantages, such as allowing for injection of semantic context (e.g., “this operation preserves the structure property of the max heap”) or for compressing traces by dynamically skipping less interesting parts of the trajectory (e.g., repeated logic within a for loop). We generate this data by prompting Qwen3-32B-FP8 (without thinking) (Yang et al., 2025a ) to re-write execution traces from our function-level and CodeContests trace datasets. After removing cases where the final output prediction from Qwen diverges from the ground truth trace, we obtain 75   M 75\text{\,}\mathrm{M} trajectories from standalone Python functions and 110   k 110\text{\,}\mathrm{k} from CodeContests data. 

 2.3 ForagerAgent: agentic midtraining data generation 
 
 We mid-train CWM on a large-scale dataset of interactions between an LLM-based software engineering agent and a computational environment. This data is generated with our so-called ForagerAgent, which collects multi-step trajectories by prompting an LLM with a software engineering task to solve in the context of a particular code repository. Exposing CWM to such data at large scale early on should improve subsequent post-training in similar environments, as model predictions should already be grounded in environment dynamics. 

 The actions available to the agent are derived from the standard SWE-Agent (Yang et al., 2024 ) toolset: (i) create a file, (ii) edit a file, (iii) run a bash command, and (iv) view or navigate inside a file. The trajectory is concluded once the LLM, either Llama3-70B-Instruct (Dubey et al., 2024 ) or Qwen3-235B-A22B (w/o thinking) (Yang et al., 2025a ) , believes the task has been solved or the number of tokens, turns, or API costs exceed a hard limit. Like the repository-level tracing data, ForagerAgent relies on our set of executable repository images (see Section ˜ 2.1 ) to seed problem generation. To avoid contamination, we filter out all repositories (and their forks) that are used in SWE-bench. The tasks presented to the model can be categorized into two groups: synthetic tasks and real-world tasks, which we call mutate-fix and issue-fix . 

 Mutate-fix tasks . For mutate-fix tasks, we start with a working codebase and then synthetically introduce a bug for the agent to fix. We begin by identifying functions (and methods – omitted for brevity below) that can be verified using the repository test suite.
As a first step, we filter these functions to the subset for which all unit tests pass successfully.
We then consider the following set of mutations to synthetically introduce a bug into these functions: 

 • 
 
 Functions: remove either a portion of the function or the entire function. 

 • 
 
 Arguments: remove arguments from the function definition or randomly re-order function call arguments. 

 • 
 
 Variables: sample a pair of variables in the function and swap all their occurrences. 

 • 
 
 Statements: remove an import or return statement. 

 • 
 
 Operators: replace operators (binary, unary, or boolean) in statements in the function. 

 We filter out mutations that cannot be applied for a given function by parsing the corresponding abstract syntax tree (AST). Lastly, we verify that applying the candidate mutation does in fact cause the associated unit tests to fail.
We can now use the mutation as a starting point for agentic data collection: we instruct the agent to inspect the mutated function, run its unit tests, and resolve the failing tests by fixing the bug. 

 Issue-fix tasks . For issue-fix tasks, we prompt the model to fix real issues in our set of repositories, using both issue and pull request data from GitHub.
We check out commits preceding bug-fixing PRs and task the agent with resolving failing unit tests, providing the corresponding GitHub issue descriptions for context.
We ensure unit tests are failing before the PRs and that their resolution is necessary and sufficient for addressing the issues. 

 Post-processing. To avoid overfitting to repetitive interactions, we apply a near-deduplication of trajectories foraged from the same source repository: we first represent a trajectory by the concatenation of its actions, then encode the trajectory using MinHash, and lastly drop trajectories such that the pairwise Jaccard similarity for all encoded trajectories we keep is less than 0.5 0.5 . Because our goal with the ForagerAgent data is to learn a comprehensive world model of agentic interactions with code environments, we do not filter trajectories based on whether they succeed at bug or issue resolution. Following the same motivation, we further train the model to predict both agent and environment turns, although we stochastically mask loss for 50   % 50\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} of observations as they exhibit limited diversity. Overall, we are left with 3   M 3\text{\,}\mathrm{M} trajectories obtained from 10.2   k 10.2\text{\,}\mathrm{k} images, and we refer to Table ˜ 1 for more detailed statistics. 

 Table 1 : Statistics of ForagerAgent trajectories. We gather 3   M 3\text{\,}\mathrm{M} trajectories from 10.2   k 10.2\text{\,}\mathrm{k} images and 3.15   k 3.15\text{\,}\mathrm{k} underlying repositories. The trajectories are split 55 55 – 45 45 between issue- and mutate-fix tasks.

 Repos 
 Images 
 Trajectories 
 Issues-Fix 
 Mutate-Fix 

 3.15k 
 10.2k 
 3M 
 55% 
 Functions 
 Arguments 
 Variables 
 Statements 
 Operators 

 7   % 7\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} 
 9   % 9\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} 
 6   % 6\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} 
 11   % 11\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} 
 12   % 12\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} 

 3 Examples of code world modeling 
 
 Before introducing the CWM architecture and benchmark results more formally, in this section, we share a few example generations from the final model that illustrate our excitement for code world modeling. 

 For competitive programming, Figure ˜ 4 shows an example where CWM first creates an initial solution after reasoning about the problem statement, then constructs input-output pairs to assess the correctness of its solution, before finally comparing its own prediction against the actual results of program execution.
Although we did not train CWM for it directly, this is exactly the kind of reasoning about environment dynamics that we believe code world models can enable.
We are excited about future work that explicitly integrates reasoning about environment feedback to improve agentic code generation. 

 While CWM is trained to simulate the execution of Python code line-by-line, we believe the formal integration of trace prediction into natural language reasoning is interesting future work.
 Figure ˜ 5 presents an early prototype of this, showing CWM already generalizes to such behavior under light prompting.
We believe that execution trace prediction enables grounded reasoning about code generation and execution, without requiring access to live execution environments.
This can take explicit forms, such as in our prototype, but we also envision more implicit forms of regularizing reasoning through world modeling.
We further plan to extend CWM ’s trace prediction to create a “neural debugger” whose capabilities go beyond traditional debugging, such as jumping to future lines of code in constant time, predicting inputs to reach arbitrary states, or learning abstract representations of program states that support program verification, debugging, or generation. 

 Relatedly, we are excited about more direct uses of Python execution trace prediction to improve code generation.
Under appropriate prompting, CWM can be used to predict execution traces for functions that are not given directly in the context but are instead constrained only through natural language or formal asserts.
After trace prediction, the model then constructs the function body from the generated actions, which are the executed Python statements.
We show early examples of this in Figures ˜ 11.26 and  11.27 .
This method of reasoning-via-tracing for program generation is reminiscent of work by Hoare ( 1971 ); Dijkstra ( 1976 ) on using logical reasoning about program execution to guide development rather than only using it to confirm correctness post-hoc. 

 ⬇ 
 
 Okay , I need to solve this problem where I have to check if a given string is evenly separated . The definition says that between every pair of the same characters , there must be an even number of characters . So , for example , in " abba ", each ’ a ’ is at positions 0 and 3. The distance between them is 3-0 = 3, but the number of characters in between is 3-0-1 = 2, which is even . So that works . But in " aabba ", the first two ’ a ’ s are at positions 0 and 1. The number of characters between them is 0, which is even . Let me double check . But the example says it ’ s not correct . Hmm , wait maybe I ’ m misunderstanding the problem ... 

 ⬇ 
 
 tool : create 

 / code / solution . cpp 

 # include bits / stdc ++. h 

 using namespace std ; 

 bool is_evenly_separated ( const string s ) { 

 unordered_map char , int prev_index ; 

 ... 

 / tool 

 ⬇ 
 
 File created successfully at : / code / solution . cpp (35 lines ). 

 ⬇ 
 
 ... Looking back , the code reads a string , passes it to the function . Let me create some test cases . 

 Test 1: ’ abba ’ - expected YES - the code should return YES . 

 Test 2: ’ aabba ’ - expected NO - because when it processes the third character , it ’ s the third occurrence of ’ a ’. 

 Wait for ’ aabba ’: 

 Indices 0: a ( occurs once ) 

 index1 : a now ( occurs twice . check 0 and 1 - difference is 1 - ??? 

 But difference is -1 - mod 2 is -1 % 

 Then loop reaches index 4 ( a ’ s third occurrence ), which code detects count for a which is already 2 - returns NO . 

 So code should output NO here . 

 Other test : ’ aaa ’ ( NO when processing third a ). 

 test4 : ’ abcd ’ - YES ( each character appears once or twice in non - same parity ) - code OK . 

 ttest5 : ’ aabb ’ - the two a ’ s ( index 0 and1 - difference 1, ok ). Two b ’ s ( index 2,3 difference - 1 is ok ). Code returns YES . 

 Now let ’ s compile and run the code . 

 ⬇ 
 
 tool : bash 

 g ++ - std = c ++17 - O2 solution . cpp - o solution ; 

 echo - e " abba \ n " | ./ solution 

 echo - e " aabba \ n " | ./ solution 

 echo - e " aaa \ n " | ./ solution 

 echo - e " abcd \ n " | ./ solution 

 echo - e " aabb \ n " | ./ solution 

 / tool 

 ⬇ 
 
 YES 

 NO 

 NO 

 YES 

 YES 

 ⬇ 
 
 All the test cases match the expected results . The code works correctly for these samples and edge cases . For very large inputs , the code has O ( n ) time and O (1) space ( since there are 26 possible characters , hash maps would use at most 26 entries ). Therefore , the solution is efficient and should pass all test cases , including those up to 1 e6 characters long . 

 The approach checks for each character occurrence and ensures that each pair of occurrences meet the parity requirement . Also , it immediately terminates upon finding a third occurrence or a pair with same parity indices , which is crucial for efficient processing . 

 I ’ m confident that there are no bugs , and the solution meets the problem ’ s requirements . 

 ⬇ 
 
 The approach involves checking each character ’ s occurrences to ensure that no character appears more than twice , and any pair of occurrences of a character must be an odd number of positions apart ( i . e ., their indices have different parities ). 

 ‘‘‘ cpp 

 # include bits / stdc ++. h 

 using namespace std ; 

 bool is_evenly_separated ( const string s ) {... 

 Figure 4 : Example of CWM solving a competitive programming problem in agentic fashion. The reasoning steps are shortened and some details are omitted due to space constraints. (Tool calls in purple, environment feedback in orange, and reasoning in blue.) 

 ⬇ 
 
 Given a python code function and an assert statement containing a specific input , provide the assertion with the exact literal output that the function returns with that input . Do not include any mathematical expressions or function calls -- only the final literal value . Your response should be solely the assertion , enclosed within [ ANSWER ] and [/ ANSWER ] tags . 

 You are a computational world model and can predict the program execution . 

 Your execution trace prediction format MUST follow this structure : 

 1. The execution trace prediction starts with the | trace_context_start | token and ends with a final | frame_sep | token . 

 2. For each code execution step : 

 - Begin with | frame_sep | followed by the event token which can be | call_sep | , | line_sep | , | return_sep | or | exception_sep | . 

 - After | call_sep | or | line_sep | put the local variable states as dictionary in JSON format followed by the | action_sep | token and the current source code line . 

 - After | return_sep | , | exception_sep | directly put the | action_sep | token and the current source code line followed by an | arg_sep | token and the return or exception arguments . 

 3. Provide the full assertion with the correct output that you obtained after | return_sep | in [ ANSWER ] and [/ ANSWER ] tags 

 Here is an example of how you would predict the output of the program using your trace prediction capability : 

 Python function : 

 def f ( a , b ): 

 y = a 

 for i in range ( b ): 

 y += y * i 

 return y 

 assert f (1,3) == ?? 

 think 

 your internal reasoning 

 / think 

 Let ’ s verify this by putting the code into a trace context and call the function in the main () function and then trace the execution of the main function . 

 We indicate the entry point of the execution trace with a # START_OF_TRACE marker . 

 def f ( a , b ): 

 y = a 

 for i in range ( b ): 

 y += y * i 

 return y 

 def main (): # START_OF_TRACE 

 return f (1,3) 

 | frame_sep | | call_sep | {} | action_sep | def main (): # START_OF_TRACE 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {} | action_sep | return f (1,3) 

 | frame_sep | | call_sep | {" a ": "1", " b ": "3"} | action_sep | def f ( a , b ): 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {" a ": "..", " b ": ".."} | action_sep | y = a 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {" a ": "..", " b ": "..", " y ": "1"} | action_sep | for i in range ( b ): 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {" a ": "..", " b ": "..", " y ": "..", " i ": "0"} | action_sep | y += y * i 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {" a ": "..", " b ": "..", " y ": "..", " i ": ".."} | action_sep | for i in range ( b ): 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {" a ": "..", " b ": "..", " y ": "..", " i ": "1"} | action_sep | y += y * i 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {" a ": "..", " b ": "..", " y ": "2", " i ": ".."} | action_sep | for i in range ( b ): 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {" a ": "..", " b ": "..", " y ": "..", " i ": "2"} | action_sep | y += y * i 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {" a ": "..", " b ": "..", " y ": "6", " i ": ".."} | action_sep | for i in range ( b ): 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {" a ": "..", " b ": "..", " y ": "..", " i ": ".."} | action_sep | return y 

 | frame_sep | | return_sep | | action_sep | return y 

 | arg_sep | "6" | frame_sep | | return_sep | | action_sep | return f (1,3) 

 | arg_sep | "6" | frame_sep | 

 Now let us analyze the trace . The return argument of the function call f (1,3) in the main () function is "6" in JSON format , so the return value is 6. 

 [ ANSWER ] 

 assert f (1,3) == 6 

 [/ ANSWER ] 

 Python function : 

 def f ( d , k ): 

 new_d = {} 

 for key , val in d . items (): 

 if key k : 

 new_d [ key ] = val 

 return new_d 

 assert f ({1: 2, 2: 4, 3: 3}, 3) == ?? 

 ⬇ 
 
 Let ’ s analyze the function call f ({1: 2, 2: 4, 3: 3}, 3). 

 The function f takes a dictionary d and a key k . It creates a new dictionary new_d and iterates over the items in d . For each key - value pair , if the key is less thank , it adds that key - value pair to new_d . 

 In this case , the dictionary is {1: 2, 2: 4, 3: 3} and the key is 3. We need to check each key in the dictionary to see if it ’ s less than 3. 

 - Key 1: 1 3 is True , so we add 1: 2 to new_d . 

 - Key 2: 2 3 is True , so we add 2: 4 to new_d . 

 - Key 3: 3 3 is False , so we skip 3: 3. 

 So , the resulting dictionary new_d should be {1: 2, 2: 4}. 

 / think 

 ⬇ 
 
 Let ’ s verify this by putting the code into a trace context and call the function in the main () function and then trace the execution of the main function . 

 We indicate the entry point of the execution trace with a # START_OF_TRACE marker . 

 def f ( d , k ): 

 new_d = {} 

 for key , val in d . items (): 

 if key k : 

 new_d [ key ] = val 

 return new_d 

 def main (): # START_OF_TRACE 

 return f ({1: 2, 2: 4, 3: 3}, 3) 

 | frame_sep | | call_sep | {} | action_sep | def main (): # START_OF_TRACE 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {} | action_sep | return f ({1: 2, 2: 4, 3: 3}, 3) 

 | frame_sep | | call_sep | {" d ": "{1: 2, 2: 4, 3: 3}", " k ": "3"} | action_sep | def f ( d , k ): 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {" d ": "..", " k ": ".."} | action_sep | new_d = {} 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {" d ": "..", " k ": "..", " new_d ": "{}"} | action_sep | for key , val in d . items (): 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {" d ": "..", " k ": "..", " new_d ": "..", " key ": "1", " val ": "2"} | action_sep | if key k : 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {" d ": "..", " k ": "..", " new_d ": "..", " key ": "..", " val ": ".."} | action_sep | new_d [ key ] = val 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {" d ": "..", " k ": "..", " new_d ": "{1: 2}", " key ": "..", " val ": ".."} | action_sep | for key , val in d . items (): 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {" d ": "..", " k ": "..", " new_d ": "..", " key ": "2", " val ": "4"} | action_sep | if key k : 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {" d ": "..", " k ": "..", " new_d ": "..", " key ": "..", " val ": ".."} | action_sep | new_d [ key ] = val 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {" d ": "..", " k ": "..", " new_d ": "{1: 2, 2: 4}", " key ": "..", " val ": ".."} | action_sep | for key , val in d . items (): 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {" d ": "..", " k ": "..", " new_d ": "..", " key ": "3", " val ": "3"} | action_sep | if key k : 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {" d ": "..", " k ": "..", " new_d ": "..", " key ": "..", " val ": ".."} | action_sep | for key , val in d . items (): 

 | frame_sep | | line_sep | {" d ": "..", " k ": "..", " new_d ": "..", " key ": "..", " val ": ".."} | action_sep | return new_d 

 | frame_sep | | return_sep | | action_sep | return new_d 

 | arg_sep | "{1: 2, 2: 4}" | frame_sep | | return_sep | | action_sep | return f ({1: 2, 2: 4, 3: 3}, 3) 

 | arg_sep | "{1: 2, 2: 4}" | frame_sep | 

 Now let us analyze the trace . The return argument of the function call f ({1: 2, 2: 4, 3: 3}, 3) in the main () function is "{1: 2, 2: 4}" in JSON format , so the return value is {1: 2, 2: 4}. 

 [ ANSWER ] 

 assert f ({1: 2, 2: 4, 3: 3}, 3) == {1: 2, 2: 4} 

 [/ ANSWER ] 

 Figure 5 : Example with execution trace prediction and reasoning. In this example, we add an execution trace example to the prompt. After reasoning in natural language about the code, the model uses its execution trace prediction capability to confirm the correct return value {1: 2, 2: 4} . We encode all special tokens (e.g. |frame_sep| ) as such. 

 We refer to Section ˜ 11 for additional example trajectories from CWM , including self-correcting SWE behavior, a comparison of the advantages and disadvantages of strict trace prediction compared to natural language (and why we think their combination is worth exploring), further demonstrations of how we can adapt trace prediction to elicit code generation, and an example of using CWM to predict program termination. 

 (a) CWM architecture: GQA with alternating local ( 8   k 8\text{\,}\mathrm{k} ) and dynamic global ( 131   k 131\text{\,}\mathrm{k} ) sliding window attention. 

 (b) Overview of the CWM training and inference types for inputs and outputs. 

 Figure 6 : Figures illustrating the CWM Transformer architecture and the main types of data introduced in the different training steps and used at inference time.

 4 CWM : architecture, pre-training, and scaling laws 
 
 We next share details on the CWM architecture, final pre-training recipe, and scaling law experiments. Specific details about our efficient training infrastructure can be found in Section ˜ 6 . 

 4.1 Architecture and hyper-parameters 
 
 Model architecture. CWM is a 32 32 -billion-parameter dense decoder-only model.
We choose a dense architecture over sparse alternatives for ease-of-use in downstream open source research. CWM uses an alternating pattern of local and global attention blocks interleaved in a 3 : 1 3\!:\!1 ratio (see Figure ˜ 6(a) ) with sliding window sizes of 8192 8192 and 131 072 131\,072 tokens respectively. Transformer blocks use Grouped-Query-Attention (Ainslie et al., 2023 ) with 48 48 query heads and 8 8 key-value heads. We use SwiGLU activation functions (Shazeer, 2020 ) , RMSNorm (Zhang and Sennrich, 2019 ) with pre-normalization, Rotary Positional Embedding (RoPE) (Su et al., 2021 ) , and we train with full document-causal masking. To support long-context modeling, we follow Roziere et al. ( 2023 ); Xiong et al. ( 2023 ) and apply Scaled RoPE with θ = 1   M \theta=$1\text{\,}\mathrm{M}$ and scale factor 16 16 from mid-training onwards. We give a full overview of CWM parameters and architecture choices in Table ˜ 2 . 

 Training hyper-parameters. We train the model with the AdamW optimizer (Loshchilov and Hutter, 2019 ) with β 1 = 0.9 \beta_{1}=0.9 , β 2 = 0.95 \beta_{2}=0.95 , weight decay of 0.1 0.1 , and gradient clipping at norm 1.0 1.0 .
After 2000 2000 steps of linear warmup, we use a cosine decay learning rate schedule with peak learning rate 8 × 10 − 4 8\text{\times}{10}^{-4} and decaying by a factor of 100 × 100\times over the training horizon. The cosine decay schedule is calculated for a total training duration of 13   T 13\text{\,}\mathrm{T} tokens, with the last 5   T 5\text{\,}\mathrm{T} tokens of the scheduler used during mid-training.
Key hyper-parameters were determined using scaling laws, which we detail in Section ˜ 4.3 . 

 Table 2 : Key hyper‑parameters of the 32 B CWM . 

 Parameter 
 Value 

 Number of parameters 
 32   B 32\text{\,}\mathrm{B} 

 Layers 
 64 64 

 Hidden dimension 
 6144 6144 

 Intermediate dimension 
 21 504 21\,504 

 Number of attention heads / dimension 
 
 48 48 / 128 128 

 Number of key-value heads 
 8 8 

 Local window size 
 
 8192 8192 tokens 

 Max global context 
 
 131 072 131\,072 tokens 

 Activation function 
 SwiGLU 

 Normalization 
 RMSNorm (pre-norm) 

 Positional Encoding 
 Scaled RoPE ( θ = 10 6 \theta=10^{6} , scale factor = 16 =16 ) 

 Vocabulary size 
 
 128 256 128\,256 tokens 

 Tokenizer. CWM uses the Llama 3 tokenizer (Dubey et al., 2024 ) which is a fast Byte-Pair Encoding tokenizer implemented with TikToken. 2 2 2 See https://github.com/openai/tiktoken . The vocabulary contains 128 000 128\,000 regular tokens as well as 256 256 reserved tokens.
We keep the control tokens from Llama 3 and leverage unused reserved tokens to support our tracing and reasoning use cases. 

 4.2 Two-stage pre-training 
 
 CWM pre-training consists of two stages sharing learning-rate scheduler and optimizer states but differing in datamix and maximum document lengths: 

 1. 
 
 General pre-training : We begin with an initial pre-training phase on 8   T 8\text{\,}\mathrm{T} tokens from a diverse range of mostly English sources, with an emphasis on coding data (making up about 30   % 30\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} of the mix) as well as STEM and general knowledge. We pre-train our model with a global batch size of 8.4   M 8.4\text{\,}\mathrm{M} tokens and a context length of 8192 8192 tokens. 3 3 3 Note that our “local” attention blocks are therefore effectively global during pre-training. 

 2. 
 
 Code world model mid-training : We then mid-train the model for an additional 5   T 5\text{\,}\mathrm{T} tokens. We here depart from our more generalist pre-training datamix and introduce a number of datasets in support of our code world modeling objectives. We mid-train with a global batch size of 33   M 33\text{\,}\mathrm{M} tokens and maximum context length of 131   k 131\text{\,}\mathrm{k} tokens. 4 4 4 We have observed lackluster performance when training on long-context data at smaller batch sizes. We speculate that increasing the batch size (in tokens) is beneficial for training on long-context data, as the decrease in the number of documents contained in each batch increases the variance in our gradient estimate. 

 Mid-training is the key stage for teaching code world modeling capabilities.
Next, we discuss the changes we make to the pre-training recipe during mid-training to optimize CWM performance. 

 Mid-training datamix. For mid-training, we introduce the ForagerAgent and Python execution tracing data, our main CWM datasets introduced in Section ˜ 2 , into the datamix. We additionally include code- and reasoning-related data such as datasets derived from GitHub pull requests similar to SWE-RL (Wei et al., 2025 ) , data from compiler intermediate representations (Cummins et al., 2024 ) , Triton PyTorch kernels similar to Paliskara and Saroufim ( 2025 ) , and formal mathematics in Lean covering statement and proof translation, as well as world modeling (see Section ˜ 18 ). 

 CWM -specific data makes up 30   % 30\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} of the overall mid-training datamix.
We further increase the fraction of general code data to 40   % 40\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} and keep 30   % 30\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} for rehearsal of the initial pre-training datamix, as this proved essential in retaining performance on standard evaluations.
Within the rehearsal fraction, we now upweight higher quality datasets such as those containing math or long context data, while making sure to avoid over-epoching.
We summarize the types of data used across CWM training stages in Figure ˜ 6(b) . 

 Mid-training datamix ablations. For many of the datasets introduced during mid-training we can afford to train for multiple epochs. To determine the desired number of epochs per dataset, we perform a series of scaling law experiments (Kaplan et al., 2020 ) that simulate different levels of epoching (Dubey et al., 2024 ) . In agreement with the literature on this (Muennighoff et al., 2023 ) , we generally find that multi-epoch training improves downstream task performance, albeit at diminishing returns, before eventually leading to overfitting. By selecting target epochs such that metrics indicate little to no diminishing returns, we arrive at between 1 1 and 4 4 target epochs per dataset.
The final proportion of a dataset in the mid-training mix is then calculated such that the desired number of epochs is reached at the end of mid-training.
When estimating the number of steps per epoch, we account for both token packing (wrapping) for pre-training data and truncation for chat data. 

 Long-context mid-training. A significant amount of the mid-training data is long-context, with about 30   % 30\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} of documents exceeding 65   k 65\text{\,}\mathrm{k} tokens.
This motivates our decision to increase the maximum sequence length to 131   k 131\text{\,}\mathrm{k} tokens for all of mid-training.
Consequently, we do not need a dedicated long-context finetuning phase common in many other recipes (Yang et al., 2025a ; Agarwal et al., 2025 ; Dubey et al., 2024 ) . While our local-global pattern reduces the cost of long-context attention (see Section ˜ 4.1 ), we still found that data-parallel workers with short-context documents would often wait for ranks with long-context data during distributed training. To improve iteration speeds, we “bucketize” all documents by sequence length, ensuring all workers draw documents from the same bucket at a given step. We choose the bucket boundaries as ( 0 , 16385 ] (0,16385] , ( 16385 , 65537 ] (16385,65537] , and ( 65537 , ∞ ) (65537,\infty) tokens and take care that the marginal probability of sampling a dataset is unchanged from bucketization. Note that, to achieve further speedups, we limit the maximum global attention size to 32 768 32\,768 in the medium bucket. 

 4.3 Scaling laws 
 
 Scaling laws for LLMs that predict model performance as a function of compute, data, and model size have been studied extensively (Kaplan et al., 2020 ; Hoffmann et al., 2022 ; Bi et al., 2024 ) . These empirical laws enable the estimation of the expected loss for a given compute budget, the identification of the optimal scaling strategy between model and data size, and an informed selection of training hyper-parameters. Following Bi et al. ( 2024 ) , we develop scaling laws for optimal hyper-parameter prediction for the pre-training of CWM . 

 We adopt the compute budget formula C = M ⋅ D C=M\cdot D , where M M is the model size represented as the number of non-embedding FLOP per token and D D is the data scale corresponding to the total number of training tokens. For a decoder-only Transformer, the number of FLOP per token is approximated by 

 M = 6 ​ N ne ⏟ linear term + 6 ​ d ​ L ​ S ⏟ attention term , M=\underbrace{6N_{\text{ne}}}_{\text{linear term}}+\underbrace{6dLS}_{\text{attention term}}, 
 
 (1) 

 where N ne N_{\text{ne}} is the number of parameters excluding embeddings, d d is the model hidden dimension, S S is the sequence length, and L L is the number of layers. This formula explicitly accounts for the computational cost of self-attention, which constitutes a significant portion of the total compute, especially for smaller models and longer contexts where attention overhead is relatively more pronounced, as discussed in Bi et al. ( 2024 ) . We refer to Section ˜ 14 for further detail. 

 Recent LLMs are trained beyond data-optimal regimes (Dubey et al., 2024 ) to optimize inference costs and produce smaller yet capable models. Gadre et al. ( 2024 ) show that models scale predictably for a fixed model-to-data ratio and advocate for scaling laws that mirror the setting of the final pretraining run. Therefore, we maintain a fixed model-to-data ratio of D / M = 40 D/M=40 across compute budgets, matching the target ratio of our 32 32 B parameter model pre-trained on 8   T 8\text{\,}\mathrm{T} tokens. This ratio is roughly 8 8 times more data than would be compute optimal according to the Chinchilla paper (Hoffmann et al., 2022 ) . 

 We conduct a quasi-random search over batch size and learning rate across eight increasing compute scales, ranging from 2 × 10 18 2\times 10^{18} to 2 × 10 20 2\times 10^{20} FLOP. For each scale, we keep the configurations within 1% of the best validation loss and fit the batch size B ​ S BS and learning rate L ​ R LR with respect to the compute budget C C . Consistent with prior work, B ​ S BS grows and L ​ R LR declines gradually with C C , while near-optimal hyper-parameters span a broad range. However, likely due to our different pre-training data, our equations for learning rate and batch size diverge from Bi et al. ( 2024 ) : 

 L ​ R ​ ( C ) = 19.29 ⋅ C − 0.177 , B ​ S ​ ( C ) = 30.17 ⋅ C 0.231 . \begin{split}LR(C)=19.29\cdot C^{-0.177},\\
BS(C)=30.17\cdot C^{0.231}.\end{split} 
 
 (2) 

 See Section ˜ 14 for additional details. 

 5 Post-training: SFT, RL algorithms and environments 
 
 Our post-training phase improves CWM ’s ability to solve complex programming-related problems with reasoning, building on the internal code world model learned during earlier training stages. Concretely, we first perform supervised finetuning (SFT) to improve both reasoning and general instruction-following capabilities. We then carry out large-scale multi-task multi-turn reinforcement learning on coding contests, math questions, and software engineering environments. We describe the SFT stage, our RL algorithms, data and environments, and detail our joint RL training recipe. As we do not intend to develop a general-purpose chatbot we therefore deliberately omit an RLHF stage. 

 5.1 SFT 
 
 We perform SFT for 100   B 100\text{\,}\mathrm{B} tokens, distributed across 50   k 50\text{\,}\mathrm{k} steps with a global batch size of 2   M 2\text{\,}\mathrm{M} tokens and 32   k 32\text{\,}\mathrm{k} token sequence lengths.
We share optimization hyperparameters with pre-training but change the learning rate schedule to 1   k 1\text{\,}\mathrm{k} steps of linear warmup followed by a constant learning rate of 1 × 10 − 5 1\text{\times}{10}^{-5} .
In preliminary experiments, keeping a constant learning rate achieved similar evaluation metrics to annealing with cosine schedules while enabling high learning rate training during RL.
We further observed a performance decrease when SFT-ing at longer sequence lengths.
We suspect this is due to the configuration of our dataloader which always sequence-packs inputs (per data-parallel rank and local batch) from a single dataset. For very small datasets and large context sizes, this reduces the amount of unique steps such datasets can be observed, which may negatively affect performance. 

 Datamix. We train on a diverse mix of internal and open-access data during SFT, including standard instruction-following datasets.
About 30   % 30\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} of the datamix is rehearsal from mid-training (which itself includes 30   % 30\text{\,}\mathrm{\char 37\relax} pre-training data). This is to avoid overfitting to the SFT distribution ahead of RL and retain CWM capabilities taught in mid-training.
Our datamix also contains agentic SWE RL trajectories (see Section ˜ 5.3.1 ), some of which have been rejection-sampled from earlier iterations of the CWM itself. We have generally found it useful to iteratively improve the starting point for RL by including trajectories from earlier iterations in the next SFT. Similarly, we include external datasets with reasoning traces, as we have found the performance benefit from them carries through to our final post-RL model. Specifically, we use the OpenMathReasoning (Moshkov et al., 2025 ) and OpenCodeReasoning (Ahmad et al., 2025 ) datasets that rely on DeepSeek-R1 (Guo et al., 2025 ) . 

 Reasoning tokens. For SFT training on reasoning data, we introduce |reasoning_thinking_start| and |reasoning_thinking_end| tokens that surround any reasoning text. Because we mask the loss on all |reasoning_thinking_start| tokens, the model does not learn to generate them.
This enables both reasoning and non-reasoning behavior for the CWM -SFT model: non-reasoning mode is active by default and reasoning mode can be activated by injecting |reasoning_thinking_start| into the beginning of assistant responses.
Note that we discontinue the use of these reasoning tokens during RL as explained in Section ˜ 5.3 . 

 5.2 RL algorithm 
 
 We use a variant of Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO) to train CWM (Shao et al., 2024 ) .
GRPO is a policy gradient method that uses the PPO loss (Schulman et al., 2017 ) in combination with Monte Carlo value estimation instead of a value model, as used in PPO. Many works have proposed improvements to and fixes of GRPO (Yu et al., 2025 ; Liu et al., 2025 ; Hu et al., 2025 ; Mistral-AI et al., 2025 ) .
We incorporate a number of these and include further changes to support multi-turn RL and efficient asynchronous RL. A formal description of our RL algorithm can be found in Section ˜ 12 . 

 Differences from GRPO. We deviate from the original GRPO algorithm in the following ways: 

 • 
 
 Multi-turn: GRPO was originally developed for single turn (prompt → \rightarrow response) environments. Instead, we use a multi-turn variant where the sequence contains both model- and environment-generated tokens after the prompt, resulting in the need for masking via M i , t M_{i,t} . Furthermore, whereas GRPO used the reward r i r_{i} , we use the return R i R_{i} (sum of rewards) in the advantage calculation. 

 • 
 
 Asynchronous: Whereas GRPO uses a synchronous setup, where nodes switch between generating batches of completions and training on them, we use asynchronous RL, resulting in much higher throughput. 

 • 
 
 No σ \sigma normalization: GRPO calculates the advantage as the centered and scaled terminal reward A ^ i = ( r i − μ ) / σ \hat{A}_{i}=(r_{i}-\mu)/\sigma , where μ \mu and σ \sigma are mean and standard deviation of rewards in the batch. This introduces a difficulty bias (Liu et al., 2025 ) , which we avoid by using the more conventional A ^ i = ( R i − μ ) \hat{A}_{i}=(R_{i}-\mu) . 

 • 
 
 No length normalization: As noted by Liu et al. ( 2025 ) , dividing the loss by the trajectory length as done in GRPO leads to a