# FULL TEXT — Reinforcement Learning with Stochastic Reward Machines

https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.14837v1

Reinforcement Learning with Stochastic Reward
Machines⋆
Jan Corazza1,2 Ivan Gavran2 Daniel Neider2
corazzajan@gmail.com gavran@mpi-sws.org neider@mpi-sws.org
University of Zagreb
Max Planck Institute for Software Systems

arXiv:2510.14837v1 [cs.LG] 16 Oct 2025

1

2

Abstract. Reward machines are an established tool for dealing with reinforcement learning problems in which rewards are sparse and depend
on complex sequences of actions. However, existing algorithms for learning reward machines assume an overly idealized setting where rewards
have to be free of noise. To overcome this practical limitation, we introduce a novel type of reward machines, called stochastic reward machines,
and an algorithm for learning them. Our algorithm, based on constraint
solving, learns minimal stochastic reward machines from the explorations
of a reinforcement learning agent. This algorithm can easily be paired
with existing reinforcement learning algorithms for reward machines and
guarantees to converge to an optimal policy in the limit. We demonstrate
the effectiveness of our algorithm in two case studies and show that it
outperforms both existing methods and a naive approach for handling
noisy reward functions.
Keywords: Reinforcement Learning · Reward Machines · Non-Markovian
Rewards · SMT Solving · SAT Solving · Stochastic Reward Machines.

1

Introduction

The key assumption of a reinforcement learning (RL) model is that the reward
function is Markovian: the received reward depends only on the agent’s immediate state and action. For many practical RL tasks, however, the most natural
conceptualization of the state-space is the one in which the reward function
depends on the history of actions that the agent has performed. (Those are typically the tasks in which the agent is rewarded for complex behaviors over a
longer period.)
An emerging tool used for reinforcement learning in environments with such
non-Markovian rewards are reward machines. A reward machine is an automatonlike structure which augments the state space of the environment, capturing the
temporal component of rewards. It has been demonstrated that Q-learning [16],
⋆

A shorter version of this paper appeared in the Proceedings of the Thirty-Sixth
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-22) [5]. Source code available at
https://github.com/corazza/srm.

2

J. Corazza et al.

a standard RL algorithm, can be adapted to use and benefit from reward machines [17].
Reward machines are either given by the user, or inferred by the agent on
the fly [8,7,22]. The used learning methods ensure that the inferred machine
is minimal, enabling quick optimal convergence. Besides a faster convergence,
learning minimal reward machines contributes to the interpretability of problems
with an unclear reward structure.
Reward machines only model deterministic rewards. When the machine is
not known upfront, existing learning methods prove counterproductive in the
presence of noisy rewards, as there is either no reward machine consistent with
the agent’s experience, or the learned reward machine explodes in size, overfitting
the noise.
In this paper, we introduce the notion of a stochastic reward machine, which
can capture noisy, non-Markovian reward functions, together with a novel algorithm for learning them. The algorithm is an extension of the constraint-based
formulation of Xu et al. [22]. The extension relies on the parameters of the reward’s distribution, making sure that experiential rewards respect the distribution. In every iteration, if the agent establishes that its current hypothesis about
the machine is wrong, it updates the hypothesis (either by fixing the machine’s
parameters or by solving the constraint problem and learning a new machine).
While one could use the proposed algorithm to learn a suitable (non-stochastic) reward machine and use that machine to guide the reinforcement learning
process, we recognize the value of modeling stochasticity explicitly. First, it reveals information about the distribution of rewards, improving interpretability
of the problem at hand. Second, a direct correspondence between the stochastic
reward function and the stochastic reward machine that models it makes the
exposition clearer.
In our experimental evaluation, we demonstrate the successful working of our
algorithm on two noisy, non-Markovian case studies. We compare our algorithm
with existing methods (which do not deal explicitly with noise) on the same case
studies: as expected, disregarding the noise by using existing inference algorithms
for classical RMs performs substantially worse than our new approach. Finally,
we compare our algorithm to a baseline method that tries to “average out” the
noise.
To summarize, in this paper we 1) introduce stochastic reward machines, 2)
present a novel algorithm for learning stochastic reward machines by a RL agent,
and 3) experimentally demonstrate the efficacy of our algorithm.
1.1

Related Work

Using finite state machines to capture non-Markovian reward functions has been
proposed already in the early work on the topic [2]. Toro Icarte et al. [17,18]
introduced reward machines (known as Mealy machines in other contexts) as a
suitable formalism and an algorithm that takes advantage of the reward machine
structure. Similar formalisms, including temporal logics, have been proposed by
others, too [11,3,4]. This line of work assumes the reward machine to be given.

Reinforcement Learning with Stochastic Reward Machines

3

The assumption of the user-provided reward machine has been lifted in the
follow-up works [8,22,7]. Learning temporal representations of the reward has
been explored in different contexts: for multi-agent settings [13], for reward
shaping [20], or with user-provided advice [14]. All these approaches are fragile
in presence of noisy rewards. Other approaches focus on learning attainable sequences of labels [9,10], disregarding reward values. If reward noise ranges over
a finite set of values, Velasquez et al. [19] propose active learning of reward
machine-like automata with a probabilistic transition function.
Outside of the non-Markovian context, many works studied noise in rewards.
Everitt et al. [6] give an overview of potential sources of noise/corruption and
provide the impossibility result for learning under arbitrarily corrupted rewards.
Romoff et al. [15] propose learning a reward estimator function alongside the
value function. Wang, Liu, and Li [21] consider a problem of rewards being
flipped according to a certain distribution. While all these works consider much
richer noise models, they are not readily applicable to the non-Markovian rewards
setting.

2

Preliminaries

This section introduces the necessary background on reinforcement learning and
the formalism of reward machines for capturing non-Markovian rewards. We
illustrate all notions on a running example called Mining. Mining, inspired by
variations of Minecraft [1], models the problem of finding and exploiting ore in
an unknown environment. We use this example throughout the paper.
Fig. 1 shows the Mining world. An agent moves in a bounded grid-world
intending to find valuable ore, gold (G) and platinum (P), and bring it to the
marketplace (M). Furthermore, the agent’s success depends on the purity of the
ore and the market prices, which is stochastic and cannot be influenced by the
agent (though the spread of the market prices can naturally be bounded). In order to do so successfully, the agent has to fulfill specific additional requirements,
such as finding equipment (E) beforehand and not stepping into traps (T).
In reinforcement learning, an agent learns to solve such tasks through repeated, often episodic interactions with an environment. After each step, the
agent receives feedback (a reward r ∈ R ⊂ R) based on its performance and
acts to maximize a (discounted) sum of received rewards. This interaction forms
a stochastic process: while the environment is in some state s ∈ S, the agent
chooses an action a ∈ A according to a policy π(s, a) (a function mapping states
to probability distributions over the action space), causing the environment to
transition into the next state s′ ∈ S and giving the agent a reward r (where S is
the state space and A is the action space of the environment). A realization of
this process is a trajectory s0 a1 s1 . . . ak sk (optionally, rewards may be included
in this sequence). The agent continually updates its policy (i.e., learns) based
on received rewards.
A reinforcement learning environment is formalized as a Markov decision
process (MDP). As is common in the context of reward machines, we equip our

4

J. Corazza et al.
T

T

⃝ E

E
T

T
M

G
P
T

P
T

P

Fig. 1: A simplified example of the Mining environment grid and a trajectory.
The agent’s initial state is shown as a circle. Cells display their state labels,
or are blank if the label is ∅. The trajectory indicated by arrows shows the
agent collecting the equipment (E), finding platinum (P) and bringing it to the
marketplace (M).

MDPs with a labeling function that maps transitions to labels. These labels
correspond to high-level events that are relevant for solving the given task (e.g.,
finding gold, indicated by G).
Definition 1. A (labeled) Markov decision process is a tuple M = (S, sI , A,
p, P, L) consisting of a finite state space S, an agent’s initial state sI ∈ S, a finite
set A of actions, and a probabilistic transition function p : S × A × S → [0, 1].
Additionally, a finite set P of propositional variables, and a labeling function
L : S × A × S → 2P determine the set of relevant high-level events that the agent
senses in the environment. We define the size of an MDP M, denoted as |M|,
to be the cardinality of the set S (i.e., |M| = |S|).
Let us briefly illustrate this definition. The agent always starts in state sI .
It then interacts with the environment by taking an action at each step. If the
agent at state s ∈ S takes the action a ∈ A, its next state will be s′ ∈ S with
probability p(s, a, s′ ). For this transition (s, a, s′ ), a labeling function L emits
a set of high-level propositional variables (i.e., a label). One can think of these
labels as knowledge provided by the user. If the user can not provide any labeling
function, L can simply return the current transition.
The Mining example can be modeled by the MDP in which states are fields
of the grid world, and the agent’s actions are moving in the four cardinal directions. The transition function p models the possibility of the agent slipping when
making a move. The propositional variables used for labeling are E (equipment
found), P (platinum found), G (gold found), M (marketplace reached), T (fell into
a trap); ∅ signifies that no relevant events have occurred.
To capture an RL problem fully, we need to equip an MDP with a reward
function. Formally, a reward function R maps trajectories from (S ×A)+ ×S to a
cumulative distribution function over the set of possible rewards R. For labeled
MDPs, the reward function typically depends on finite sequences of observed
labels rather than on the more low-level sequences of state-action pairs.

Reinforcement Learning with Stochastic Reward Machines

5

Let us emphasize the significance of defining the reward function R over
finite sequences of states and actions. Using the entire history as the argument
enables us to reward behaviors that respect temporal relations and persistence
naturally. For instance, in the Mining example, the goal is to accomplish the
following steps: (1) find equipment, (2) exploit a mine, (3) deliver the ore to
the specified location, all while avoiding traps. Note that the order in which the
agent performs these steps is crucial: finding ore and going to the marketplace
without first picking up equipment is not rewarded; stepping into traps ends the
episode with reward zero. Reward functions that make use of the agent’s entire
exploration (as opposed to only the current state and action) have first been
studied by Bacchus, Boutilier, and Grove [2] and are termed non-Markovian
reward functions.
Toro Icarte et al. [17] have shown that reward machines (RMs) are a powerful
formalism for representing non-Markovian reward functions. Intuitively, one can
view the role of reward machines as maintaining the sufficient amount of memory
to turn the non-Markovian reward function back into a ordinary, Markovian one.
This results in an important feature of RMs: they enable using standard RL
algorithms (which would otherwise not be usable with non-Markovian reward
functions). Furthermore, taking advantage of the structure present in RMs, the
algorithms can be made more efficient.
On a technical level, RMs are finite-state automata that transduce a sequence
ℓ1 ℓ2 . . . ℓk of labels into a sequence r1 r2 . . . rk of rewards. For the sake of brevity,
we here omit a formal definition and introduce the concept of RMs using an
example. To this end, let us consider the RM A in Fig. 2a, which attempts to
capture the reward function of the Mining example and operates as follows.
Starting from the initial state vI , the machine transitions to an intermediate
state v1 upon finding equipment (indicated by formula1 E). From there, A either
moves to state v2 (upon finding platinum) or to state v3 (upon finding gold). The
reward, however, is delayed until the agent reaches the marketplace (indicated
by the label M) and A transitions to the terminal state vT . Once this happens,
the machine outputs a reward of 1 (if the agent has previously collected gold)
or a reward of 1.1 (if the agent has collected platinum). By contrast, violating
the prescribed order, failing to reach the marketplace, or stepping onto a trap
results in no reward for the agent. For the label sequence (∅, {E}, ∅, {P}, ∅, ∅, {M})
(from Fig. 1), the machine A will produce the reward sequence (0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1).
Note, however, that the RM in Fig. 2a fails to capture the stochastic nature
of rewards in the Mining example, which stems from varying purity of the ore
and market fluctuations. This problem arises from an intrinsic property of reward
machines: they only allow outputs to be real numbers and, hence, can only encode
deterministic reward functions. This observation shows that reward machines,
as currently defined and used in the literature, cannot capture the common
phenomenon of noisy rewards! In the next section, we show how to generalize
the model of reward machines in order to overcome this limitation.
1

We use propositional formulas to succinctly describe sets of labels. For instance, the
formula p ∨ q over P = {p, q} corresponds to the set {{p}, {q}, {p, q}}.

6

J. Corazza et al.

M, 1
v2
P, 0

vT
T, 0
v1

M, U ([0.8, 1.2])
M, 1.1

vT

T, U ([0, 0])v3

v2

v3

P, U ([0, 0])

M, U ([0.9, 1.3])

v1

G, U ([0, 0])

G, 0
E, U ([0, 0])

E, 0

vI

vI

(a) RM: rewards are real numbers.

(b) SRM: rewards are probability distributions.

Fig. 2: Classical reward machine for the mining example (left) and stochastic
reward machine (right). Transitions are labeled with input-output pairs, where
labels are given by propositional formulas encoding subsets of 2P . All states have
a transition to vT with output 0 on reading T (trap) (only depicted for v1 ). All
remaining, missing transitions are self-loops with output 0.

3

Stochastic reward machines

To capture stochastic, non-Markovian reward functions, we introduce the novel
concept of stochastic reward machines.
Definition 2. A stochastic reward machine (SRM) A = (V, vI , 2P , O, δ, σ)
is defined by a finite, nonempty set V of states, an initial state vI ∈ V , an input
alphabet 2P , a (deterministic) transition function δ : V × 2P → V , an output
alphabet O which is a finite set of cumulative distribution functions (CDFs), and
output function σ : V × 2P → O. We define the size of A, denoted as |A|, to be
|V | (i.e., the cardinality of the set V ).
To define the semantics of an SRM, let s0 a1 s1 . . . ak sk be a trajectory of an
RL episode and ℓ1 . . . ℓk the corresponding label sequence with ℓi+1 = L(si , ai+1 ,
si+1 ) for each i ∈ {0, . . . , k − 1}. The run of an SRM A on the label sequence
ℓ1 . . . ℓn is then a sequence v0 ℓ1 F1 v1 . . . vn−1 ℓn Fn vn where vi+1 = δ(vi , ℓi+1 ) and
Fi = σ(vi , ℓi+1 ) for all i ∈ {0, . . . , k − 1}. The sequence F1 . . . Fk of CDFs is now
used to determine the rewards that the agent receives: for each i ∈ {0, . . . , k −1},
the CDF Fi is sampled and the resulting reward ri ∈ R is returned. This process
results in a pair (λ, ρ) with λ = ℓ1 . . . ℓk and ρ = r1 . . . rk , which we call a trace.
We will often refer to SRM’s output by the corresponding probability distribution. We focus on continuous but bounded probability distributions, {D1 ([a1 ,
b1 ]), . . . , Dn ([an , bn ])} where n ∈ N and Di ([a, b]) is a distribution over the interval [a, b]. It is not hard to see that the classical reward machines are a special
case of Definition 2: one just has to set ai = bi for each i ∈ {1, . . . , n}, which
will result in probability distributions that assign probability 1 to a single real
number.
Fig. 2b shows an SRM B for the mining example. Note the difference to
the classical RM of Fig. 2a: the transitions now output probability distributions

Reinforcement Learning with Stochastic Reward Machines

7

instead of real values (non-trivial uniform distributions are on transitions from
v2 to vT and from v3 to vT ). This difference allows us to capture the noise in
the rewards of the example. For example, the label sequence of our running
example (∅, {E}, ∅, {P}, ∅, ∅, {M}) will be transduced to a sequence of distributions. Sampling these distributions produces different reward sequences (e.g.,
(0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0.95) and (0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1)).
Toro Icarte et al. [17] introduced a version of Q-learning for reward machines
called QRM, which assumes that the reward machine outputs deterministic rewards. In the following, we examine if the guarantees of QRM can be retained
when working with stochastic reward machines.
3.1

QRM with stochastic reward machines

In addition to specifying a learning task, reward machines help with the learning
process itself. QRM assumes knowledge of a reward machine representation of
environment reward and splits the Q-function update over all RM states by using
transition outputs in lieu of empirical rewards.
For an MDP transition (s, a, s′ ) with label ℓ, QRM executes Q-function up′
α
dates Qv (s, a) ← r + γ maxa′ Qv (s′ , a′ ) for each reward machine state v, with
′
v being the succeeding state, α ∈ R the learning rate, and r = σ(v, ℓ) the reward due to reading label ℓ in state v. These updates are equivalent to regular
Q-learning updates in the cross-product of the original MDP and the reward
machine. The reward function is Markovian with respect to the resulting crossproduct decision process. As Q-learning also converges correctly for a stochastic
Markovian reward, it is easy to see that QRM can find the optimal policy induced
by an SRM by using samples r̂ ∼ σ(v, ℓ) in the update rule.
We also remark that SRMs allow for a relaxed notion of equivalence. As we
will show in the following lemma, it is not necessary for two SRMs to be exactly
equal in order to induce the same optimal policy. We generalize the notion of
exact functional equivalence (that is necessary for RMs) into the equivalence in
expectation.
Definition 3. SRMs A and B are equivalent in expectation (A ∼E B) if
for every label sequence λ = ℓ1 ℓ2 . . . ℓk we have E[A(λ)i ] = E[B(λ)i ] for every
1 ≤ i ≤ k, that is if they output sequences of CDFs with equal expected values
(where A(λ)i refers to the i-th CDF in the output sequence A(λ)).
Lemma 1 can simplify representation and inference of SRMs, allowing the
algorithm to rely only on the expected values of the transitions in the inferred
SRM.
Lemma 1. If A = (V, vI , 2P , O, δ, σ) and B = (V ′ , vI ′ , 2P , O′ , δ ′ , σ ′ ) are equivalent in expectation then they induce the same optimal policy over the same
environment.
Now that it has been established that learning the optimal policy using
stochastic reward machines is viable, the remaining question is whether one can

8

J. Corazza et al.

drop the assumption that knowledge of the environment reward is accessible,
and learn an SRM representation of it in conjunction with the policy (instead
of assuming it to be given).

4

Inferring SRMs

In this section, we show how to infer SRMs from data obtained through the
agent’s exploration. In Section 4.1, we present a seemingly appealing baseline
algorithm, and we explain its weaknesses. We follow it by proposing Stochastic
Reward Machine Inference (SRMI) as a better approach in Section 4.2.
Both algorithms intertwine RL and learning of SRMs by starting with an
initial hypothesis SRM and
(1) running QRM which generates a sequence of traces, and
(2) if there are traces contradicting the current hypothesis, inferring a new one.
The steps repeat with the goal of recovering an SRM that captures the environment reward and using it to learn the optimal policy. QRM is performed in
conjunction with the latest hypothesis. Traces which contradict the hypothesis
are called counterexamples.
Due to Lemma 1, the task is simplified to finding an SRM that is merely
equivalent in expectation with environment rewards (instead of agreeing on exact
distributions). We assume that a bound on noise dispersion ϵc > 0 is known (e.g.,
sensors come with pre-specified measurement error tolerance). Definition 4 uses
the ϵc parameter to formalize the notion of consistency with a trace.
Definition 4. A trace (λ, ρ) = (ℓ1 ℓ2 . . . ℓk , r1 r2 . . . rk ) is ϵc -consistent with an
SRM H, which outputs a sequence of distributions H(λ) = d1 d2 . . . dk if for all
1 ≤ i ≤ k we have |ri − E[di ]| ≤ ϵc , i.e. if all of the observed rewards ri are
plausible samples from H.
SRMI can only recover an SRM representation of a noisy environment reward
that meets an additional requirement, which we formalize in Assumption 1.
Informally, the assumption requires the noise from one reward distribution not
to fully conceal the signal of a different one (unless they share means). We
are convinced this requirement is met in a large class of practical, real-world
scenarios.
Assumption 1 Let O = {D1 ([a1 , b1 ]), . . . , Dn ([an , bn ])} be the output alphabet
of the environment SRM. Let ϵc = maxi {bi − ai }/2 be the noise dispersion bound
known to the agent. We then assume that any two output distributions that can be
covered with an ϵc -interval must have equal expectations: for all 1 ≤ i, j ≤ n and
µ ∈ R we have [ai , bi ]∪[aj , bj ] ⊆ [µ−ϵc , µ+ϵc ] =⇒ E[D([ai , bi ])] = E[D([aj , bj ])].
This assumption is satisfied in the Mining example. The set {U ([0.1, 0.2]),
U ([0, 1])} breaks Assumption 1: ϵc -intervals cannot distinguish these distributions, and they differ in expected values, so they must be distinguished. The
set {U ([0.1, 0.9]), U ([0, 1])} respects it, and distinguishing these distributions is
unnecessary as they have equal expectations.

Reinforcement Learning with Stochastic Reward Machines

4.1

9

Baseline algorithm

One may be tempted to repurpose existing techniques for inferring reward machines from a collection of traces. There are two important obstacles:
1. Traces may be prefix-inconsistent: during exploration, the agent may encounter traces (ℓ1 ℓ2 . . . ℓm , r1 r2 . . . rm ) and (ℓ′1 ℓ′2 . . . ℓ′n , r1′ r2′ . . . rn′ ) s.t. for
some 1 ≤ i ≤ min{m, n} we have ℓ1 . . . ℓi = ℓ′1 . . . ℓ′i but r1 . . . ri ̸= r1′ . . . ri′ .
The consequence is that no reward machine can capture both traces.
2. Even if a collection of traces where noise is present is prefix-consistent, the
(inferred) reward machine will tend to be impractically large because it will
overfit noisy data.
The baseline algorithm solves these problems by obtaining multiple samples
for each trace in the counterexample set, and producing estimates for transition
means before inferring the structure of the reward machine. Starting with an
initial hypothesis the following steps are repeated:
(1) run QRM which generates a sequence of traces
(2) when a counterexample is encountered, pause QRM and replay its trajectory
until enough samples are collected
(3) preprocess the counterexample set so that multiple samples collected in (2)
are collapsed into estimates for environment reward means
(4) use the deterministic RM inference method by Xu et al. [22] to infer the new
minimal consistent hypothesis
As knowledge of environment SRM structure is not assumed, it is necessary
to sample traces (instead of individual transitions). The number of samples required in (2) is determined from ϵc and an additional parameter for the minimal
distance between two different transition means in the environment SRM. The
preprocessing in (3) ensures (up to a confidence level) that different estimates for
the same means are aggregated into one, and the result respects ϵc -consistency
with the original sample set.
This approach seems to eliminate the two issues presented by stochastic
rewards: since every prefix is sampled many times and then averaged and aggregated, there can be no prefix inconsistencies. Furthermore, aggregation leaves
little room for overfitting noise. However, the agent must be able to sample traces
multiple times on demand. As we show in section 5, this is costly, and sometimes
even impossible.
4.2

Stochastic Reward Machine Inference

In contrast to the baseline algorithm, SRMI uses counterexamples to improve
hypotheses immediately by relying on a richer constraint solving method that is
able to encode ϵc -consistency with the counterexample set directly. This removes
the need for replaying trajectories.

10

J. Corazza et al.

As before, the task for the algorithm is to recover a minimal SRM that is
equivalent in expectation to the true environment one, and use it to learn the
optimal policy. Starting with an initial hypothesis SRM, the following steps are
repeated:
(1) Run QRM and record all traces in a set A (Lines 5 to 6 in Algorithm 1).
(2) When a counterexample is encountered, add it to the set X and attempt
to make the current hypothesis ϵc -consistent with X by shifting its outputs
(Lines 7 to 10).
(3) If Step (2) failed, solve a constraint problem to infer the new hypothesis
(Line 12).
(4) Compute the final mean estimates to correct outputs of the inferred hypothesis based on empirical rewards in A (Line 14).
The algorithm generates a sequence of hypothesis SRMs H1 H2 · · · and a
sequence of counterexample sets X1 X2 · · · (with Xi ⊂ Xj for all i < j) where
Hj is consistent with Xj−1 (and thus every Xi for 1 ≤ i ≤ j). For simplicity,
we assume noise distributions are symmetric, but SRMI can easily be extended
to cover asymmetric ones (see Appendix B). Hypothesis outputs are in the form
D([µ − ϵc , µ + ϵc ]), where D([a, b]) is a symmetric distribution over an interval,
and µ ∈ R is the estimated mean of a particular transition. Two SRMs are
structurally isomorphic (Line 9) if their underlying automata without the reward
output are isomorphic in a graph-theoretic sense.

Algorithm 1: SRMI
Initialize SRM H with a set of states V ;
Initialize a set of q-functions Q = {q v |v ∈ V };
3 Initialize X = ∅ and A = ∅;
4 for episode n = 1, 2, . . . do
5
(λ, ρ, Q) ← QRM_episode(H, Q);
6
add (λ, ρ) to A;
7
if H not ϵc -consistent with (λ, ρ) then
8
add (λ, ρ) to X;
9
if found SRM Z isomorphic with H and ϵc -consistent with X then
10
H′ ← Z;
11
else
12
infer H′ from X;
13
end
14
H ← Estimates (H′ , A);
15
reinitialize Q;
16
end
17 end
1
2

There are many ϵc -consistent SRMs that can be returned by the constraint
solving method in Line 12, not necessarily having the best estimates for transition means. To correct for this, the function Estimates assigns sets of observed

Reinforcement Learning with Stochastic Reward Machines

11

rewards to each hypothesis transition by simulating its runs on traces in A and
uses them to compute the final estimates.
Our algorithm categorized every counterexample as either Type 1 or Type 2 .
A counterexample (λ, ρ) is of Type 1 with respect to Hi if there exists a graphisomorphic SRM Z that is consistent with (λ, ρ) and Xi−1 (otherwise it is Type
2 ). Then Hi+1 = Z and Xi = Xi−1 ∪ {(λ, ρ)}. Intuitively the current hypothesis
can be "fixed" to become consistent with Type 1 counterexamples by shifting
outputs without changing the structure of the SRM. We now discuss how our
algorithm handles counterexamples of Type 2 .
Inferring the structure and output range of a new hypothesis When a
new Type 2 counterexample is encountered (i.e., outputs in the current hypothesis cannot be shifted to make it consistent), SRMI infers a new hypothesis from
the counterexamples, effectively solving the following task.
Task 1 Given a set of traces X and dispersion ϵc , produce a minimal SRM that
is ϵc -consistent with all traces in X.
We accomplish Task 1 by encoding it as a constraint problem in real arithmetic. Our encoding is an extension of the encoding used in the JIRP algorithm [22]. Minimality is ensured by starting from machines of size n = 1, increasing the size by 1 each time the constraint problem proves unsatisfiable,
and returning the first successful result. For a given size, we use a collection
of propositional and real variables from which one can extract an SRM, and
constrain them so they (1) encode a valid SRM and (2) ensure that the SRM
is consistent with the set X. More precisely, for size n ∈ N \ {0}, parameter ϵc ,
c
and counterexample set X, we construct a formula ΦX,ϵ
with the following two
n
properties:
c
(a) ΦX,ϵ
is satisfiable iff there exists an SRM H of size n that is ϵc -consistent
n
with every trace in X.
c
contains sufficient infor(b) Every satisfying assignment for variables in ΦX,ϵ
n
mation to construct a consistent SRM of size n.
c
is built using the following variables:
The formula ΦX,ϵ
n

– dp,ℓ,q are propositional variables, true iff δ(p, ℓ) = q
– ov,ℓ are real variables that match the value of E[σ(v, ℓ)]
– xλ,v are propositional variables encoding machine runs, true if the SRM
arrives in state v upon reading label sequence λ
We use these variables to define constraints (1) - (4). Formula 1 requires
that at the beginning (after an empty sequence), the SRM is in the initial state.
Formula 2 requires that the SRM transitions to exactly one state upon seeing a
label.
The remaining two formulas connect the SRM to the set X (we use symbol
Pref (X) for the set of prefixes of traces in X). Formula 3 connects seen prefixes

12

J. Corazza et al.

to the transition function captured by variables dp,ℓ,q . Finally, Formula 4 ensures
ϵc -consistency.

xϵ,vI ∧

^

¬xϵ,v

(1)

v∈V \{vI }

^ ^  _
p∈V ℓ∈2P


dp,ℓ,q ∧

 ^


¬dp,ℓ,q ∨ ¬d

p,ℓ,q′

(2)

q,q′ ∈V
q̸=q′

q∈V

^

^

(xλ,p ∧ dp,ℓ,q ) → xλℓ,q

(3)

xλ,v → |ov,ℓ − r| ≤ ϵc

(4)

(λℓ,ρr)∈Pref (X) p,q∈V

^

^

(λℓ,ρr)∈Pref (X) v∈V
c
is defined as a conjunction of formulas (1) - (4). One can
The formula ΦX,ϵ
n
c
as there is a bijection between
easily see that properties (a), (b) hold for ΦX,ϵ
n
X,ϵc
assignments for which Φn is true and consistent SRMs (modulo distributions).
Let H′ be the SRM constructed from a model that satisfies the above constraints, with σH′ (v, ℓ) = D([ov,ℓ − ϵc , ov,ℓ + ϵc ]). For every (λ, ρ) ∈ X of length
k and 1 ≤ i ≤ k, due to (4), we have | E[H′ (λ)i ] − ρi | < ϵc and so H′ is the
new ϵc -consistent hypothesis. When H′ is constructed by correcting for a type 1
counterexample, it is consistent by definition.

Correcting output distributions in inferred SRMs As there can be many
SRMs ϵc -consistent with X that are not equivalent in expectation, Task 1 need
not have a unique solution. To illustrate how nonuniqueness can prohibit correct
convergence of hypothesis SRMs, let X contain samples from a single-state SRM
T with two possible outputs, D([0, 1]) on ℓ1 and D([10, 100]) on ℓ2 (ϵc = (100 −
10)/2 = 45). For α ∈ R let Hα be a single-state SRM with two possible outputs,
D([α − 45, α + 45]) on ℓ1 and D([10, 100]) on ℓ2 . Then for all −44 ≤ α, β ≤ 45
(α ̸= β) we have Hα ̸∼E Hβ , yet both are ϵc -consistent with X. Thus, SRMI
must choose solutions to Task 1 so that any generated hypothesis sequence will
converge to the same limit T .
This is done in the Estimates step of Algorithm 1, which simulates runs of H′
(the inferred solution to Task 1) on consistent traces in A, yielding final estimates
of means based on empirical rewards (shown in Algorithm 2). The need to filter
for consistency is due to the fact that the set of SRMs consistent with A is often
strictly smaller than the set of those consistent with X. As X grows to capture
more information about environment reward, the need for filtering recedes.
Using the midrange estimator for outputs in H ensures it remains consistent with the counterexamples. As new Type 1 counterexamples will always be
found eventually, Estimates runs infinitely often which guarantees convergence
to correct means.

Reinforcement Learning with Stochastic Reward Machines

13

Algorithm 2: Estimates
Initialize sets r(v, ℓ) for states v ∈ V and ℓ ∈ 2P ;
′
2 Initialize empty output function σ ;
3 for (λ, ρ) ∈ A do
4
Skip (λ, ρ) if not ϵc -consistent with H;
5
Simulate a run of H on λ disregarding its outputs and record rewards from
ρ in corresponding r(v, ℓ) sets;
6
for v ∈ V , ℓ ∈ 2P do
7
µ′ ← (max r(v, ℓ) + min r(v, ℓ))/2;
8
Set σ ′ (v, ℓ) = U [µ′ − ϵc , µ′ + ϵc ];
9
end
10 end
′
11 Return H with σ as the output function;
1

Convergence to an optimal policy
Theorem 1. Given Assumption 1 on the output alphabet of the environment
SRM and an ϵ-greedy exploration strategy, SRMI converges in the limit to an
SRM that is equivalent in expectation to the true environment one.
The proof of Theorem 1 follows similar reasoning to the convergence proof
for JIRP. We first establish that SRMI does not revisit structurally isomorphic
SRMs. As there are only finitely many such structures for a fixed maximal size,
SRMI "settles" in a final structure. Then Assumption 1 guarantees that Estimates will converge to the correct expectations.
Corollary 1. SRMI converges to an optimal policy in the limit.
Corollary 1 follows from Theorem 1 due to Lemma 1, which guarantees that
two SRMs that are equivalent in expectation induce the same optimal policy,
and finally due to the fact that QRM with stochastic reward machines converges
to an optimal policy.

5

Results

To assess the performance of SRMI, we have implemented a Python 3 prototype
based on code by Toro Icarte et al. [17], which we have made publicly available2 . To assess its performance, we compare SRMI to the baseline algorithm
and the JIRP algorithm for classical reward machines on two case studies: the
mining example from Section 2 and an example inspired by harvesting (which
we describe shortly).
Our primary metric is the cumulative reward averaged over the last 100
episodes. We conducted 10 independent runs for each algorithm, using Z3 [12]
as the constraint solver. All experiments were conducted on a 3 GHz machine
with 1.5 TB RAM.
2

Source code available at https://github.com/corazza/srm.

14

J. Corazza et al.

1

1

0.8

0.8

0.6

0.6
0.4

0.4
SRMI
baseline
JIRP

0.2
0

0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3
steps
·106
(a) Stochastic rewards

SRMI
baseline
JIRP

0.2
0

0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3
steps
·106
(b) Non-stochastic rewards

Fig. 3: Results on the mining environment

Mining Fig. 3a shows the comparison on the Mining environment. The interquartile ranges for the reward are drawn as shaded areas, while the medians
are drawn as solid lines. For this case study, we have set the baseline algorithm
to replay 20 traces per counterexample. As can be seen from the figure, SRMI
converges faster to an optimal policy (reward 1) than both the baseline algorithm and JIRP. The latter times out because it is unable to deal with the noise
properly and tries to infer larger and larger RMs.
Fig. 3b compares SRMI, baseline, and JIRP on a non-stochastic version of
the Mining environment using the reward machine of Fig. 2a to define the rewards. All algorithms perform equally well. Thus, SRMI does not incur a runtime
penalty, even when used in non-stochastic settings.
Harvest The Harvest environment represents a crop-farming cycle. The agent is
rewarded for performing a sequence of actions, P, W, H, S (plant, water, harvest,
sell), and penalized for breaking it. MDP states G, M, B (good, medium, bad)

vG

S, U ([1.6, 2.4])

0.8
vI

v1

¬ H, U ([−1.2, −0.8])

0.1

G

v2

vM

0.1

H ∧ B, U ([0, 0])

0.1

0.1
0.8

M
0.1

0.8

vB
B

(a) SRM: all missing transitions are selfloops with reward 0

Fig. 4: Harvest environment

(b) MDP

0.1

Reinforcement Learning with Stochastic Reward Machines

10

10

0

0
SRMI
baseline
JIRP

−10
−20

−10
−20
SRMI
baseline
JIRP

−30

−30

−40

−40
0

0.5

1

1.5

2

steps
(a) Stochastic rewards

2.5
·104

15

0

0.5

1

1.5

steps

2

2.5
·104

(b) Non-stochastic rewards

Fig. 5: Results on the harvest environment

transition as given by the dynamics in Fig. 4b. The labeling function L(s, a, s′ )
returns the transition, effectively making trajectories s0 a1 s1 . . . ak sk their own
label sequences. The reward mean depends on the MDP state during the harvest
action as shown in Fig. 4a.
The Harvest example is well suited for showing the benefits of SRMI over
the baseline, because the probability that the agent will repeatedly see a given
trajectory is very low.
Fig. 5a shows the comparison on the Harvest environment. SRMI was successful in learning the optimal policy, while the baseline algorithm got stuck in
collecting the required number of samples (5), and JIRP again timed out. In
a modified Harvest environment, without noise, the algorithms do equally well
(Fig. 5b).

6

Conclusion

In this work we introduced Stochastic reward machines as a general way of representing non-Markovian stochastic rewards in RL tasks, and the SRMI algorithm
that is able to infer an SRM representation of the environment reward based
on traces, and use it to learn the optimal policy. We have shown SRMI is an
improvement over prior methods.

References
1. Andreas, J., Klein, D., Levine, S.: Modular multitask reinforcement learning with
policy sketches. In: ICML’2017. pp. 166–175. JMLR. org (2017)
2. Bacchus, F., Boutilier, C., Grove, A.J.: Rewarding behaviors. In: AAAI/IAAI, Vol.
2. pp. 1160–1167. AAAI Press / The MIT Press (1996)
3. Brafman, R.I., Giacomo, G.D., Patrizi, F.: Ltlf/ldlf non-markovian rewards. In:
AAAI. pp. 1771–1778. AAAI Press (2018)

16

J. Corazza et al.

4. Camacho, A., Icarte, R.T., Klassen, T.Q., Valenzano, R.A., McIlraith, S.A.: LTL
and beyond: Formal languages for reward function specification in reinforcement
learning. In: IJCAI. pp. 6065–6073. ijcai.org (2019)
5. Corazza, J., Gavran, I., Neider, D.: Reinforcement learning with stochastic reward
machines. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence 36(6),
6429–6436 (Jun 2022). https://doi.org/10.1609/aaai.v36i6.20594, https://ojs.aaai
.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20594
6. Everitt, T., Krakovna, V., Orseau, L., Legg, S.: Reinforcement learning with a
corrupted reward channel. In: IJCAI. pp. 4705–4713. ijcai.org (2017)
7. Furelos-Blanco, D., Law, M., Russo, A., Broda, K., Jonsson, A.: Induction of subgoal automata for reinforcement learning. In: AAAI. pp. 3890–3897. AAAI Press
(2020)
8. Gaon, M., Brafman, R.I.: Reinforcement learning with non-markovian rewards. In:
AAAI. pp. 3980–3987. AAAI Press (2020)
9. Hasanbeig, M., Jeppu, N.Y., Abate, A., Melham, T., Kroening, D.: Deepsynth: Automata synthesis for automatic task segmentation in deep reinforcement learning.
In: AAAI. pp. 7647–7656. AAAI Press (2021)
10. Icarte, R.A.T., Waldie, E., Klassen, T., Valenzano, R., Castro, M.P., McIlraith,
S.A.: Learning reward machines for partially observable reinforcement learning.
In: NeurIPS (2019)
11. Jothimurugan, K., Alur, R., Bastani, O.: A composable specification language for
reinforcement learning tasks. In: NeurIPS. pp. 13021–13030 (2019)
12. de Moura, L.M., Bjørner, N.: Z3: an efficient SMT solver. In: TACAS. Lecture
Notes in Computer Science, vol. 4963, pp. 337–340. Springer (2008)
13. Neary, C., Xu, Z., Wu, B., Topcu, U.: Reward machines for cooperative multi-agent
reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2007.01962 (2020)
14. Neider, D., Gaglione, J., Gavran, I., Topcu, U., Wu, B., Xu, Z.: Advice-guided
reinforcement learning in a non-markovian environment. In: AAAI. pp. 9073–9080.
AAAI Press (2021)
15. Romoff, J., Henderson, P., Piché, A., François-Lavet, V., Pineau, J.: Reward estimation for variance reduction in deep reinforcement learning. In: CoRL. Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, vol. 87, pp. 674–699. PMLR (2018)
16. Sutton, R.S., Barto, A.G.: Reinforcement learning: An introduction. MIT press
(2018)
17. Toro Icarte, R., Klassen, T.Q., Valenzano, R.A., McIlraith, S.A.: Using reward machines for high-level task specification and decomposition in reinforcement learning. In: ICML. Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, vol. 80, pp. 2112–2121.
PMLR (2018)
18. Toro Icarte, R., Klassen, T.Q., Valenzano, R.A., McIlraith, S.A.: Reward machines: Exploiting reward function structure in reinforcement learning. CoRR
abs/2010.03950 (2020)
19. Velasquez, A., Beckus, A., Dohmen, T., Trivedi, A., Topper, N., Atia, G.: Learning probabilistic reward machines from non-markovian stochastic reward processes
(2021)
20. Velasquez, A., Bissey, B., Barak, L., Beckus, A., Alkhouri, I., Melcer, D., Atia,
G.K.: Dynamic automaton-guided reward shaping for monte carlo tree search. In:
AAAI. pp. 12015–12023. AAAI Press (2021)
21. Wang, J., Liu, Y., Li, B.: Reinforcement learning with perturbed rewards. In:
AAAI. pp. 6202–6209. AAAI Press (2020)

Reinforcement Learning with Stochastic Reward Machines

17

22. Xu, Z., Gavran, I., Ahmad, Y., Majumdar, R., Neider, D., Topcu, U., Wu, B.: Joint
inference of reward machines and policies for reinforcement learning. In: ICAPS.
pp. 590–598. AAAI Press (2020), https://aaai.org/ojs/index.php/ICAPS/article
/view/6756

18

A

J. Corazza et al.

Additional results

Figure 6 shows the comparison between SRMI and standard deep reinforcement
learning algorithms, DDQN and DHRL (deep hierarchical reinforcement learning). The DDQN agent was provided the past 200 labels as inputs to the network.
The DHRL agent was based on an implementation provided in Toro Icarte et
al. [17], who expanded the HRL options framework for use with reward machines
(we note that DHRL in this case assumes access to SRM structure in order to
generate options).
SRMI significantly outperforms the alternatives which is in line with similar
results for the non-stochastic setting [14].

1
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2

SRMI
DDQN
DHRL

0

20
10
0
−10
−20
−30
−40

SRMI
DDQN
DHRL

0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3
steps
·106

0

0.5

1

1.5

2

(a) Mining environment

(b) Harvest environment

steps

2.5
·104

Fig. 6: Comparison of SRMI with DDQN and DHRL
Note that, given a bounded symmetric distribution D, midpoint µ′ is an
unbiased estimator for E[D]. We use it because it also works as a range estimate
for D that respects ϵc -consistency, whereas the empirical average can break it.
Asymmetric distributions complicate exposition, but in that case we do use the
empirical average for estimating E[D] (see Algorithm 4 in Appendix B).

B

Asymmetric noise distributions

In Algorithm 1 (SRMI) we have assumed that rewards follow symmetric distributions, more precisely we assumed E[D([a, b])] = (a + b)/2 holds for all reward
distributions in the environment SRM. Algorithms 3 and 4 show how to extend
SRMI towards dropping this assumption.
Symmetric reward distributions allow one to use a single number to store
information about both the mean of a hypothesis output, and its range. In
other words, if µ is the mean estimate for some hypothesis output d = D([a, b])
(b − a = 2ϵc ), one can safely set d = U ([µ − ϵc , µ + ϵc ]). However, if rewards

Reinforcement Learning with Stochastic Reward Machines

Algorithm 3: SRMI (asymmetric rewards)
Initialize SRMs H, G with a set of states V ;
Initialize a set of q-functions Q = {q v |v ∈ V };
3 Initialize X = ∅ and R = ∅;
4 for episode n = 1, 2, . . . do
5
(λ, ρ, Q) ← QRM_episode(G, Q);
6
add (λ, ρ) to A;
7
if H not ϵc -consistent with (λ, ρ) then
8
add (λ, ρ) to X;
9
if found SRM Z isomorphic with H and ϵc -consistent with X then
10
H′ ← Z;
11
else
12
infer H′ from X;
13
end
14
(H, G) ← Estimates (H′ , A);
15
reinitialize Q;
16
end
17 end
1
2

Algorithm 4: Estimates (asymmetric rewards)
Initialize sets r(v, ℓ) for states v ∈ V and ℓ ∈ 2P ;
Initialize empty output functions σ ′ , σ̂;
3 for (λ, ρ) ∈ A do
4
Skip (λ, ρ) if not ϵc -consistent with H;
5
Simulate a run of H on λ disregarding its outputs and record rewards from
ρ in corresponding r(v, ℓ) sets;
6
for v ∈ V , ℓ ∈ 2P do
7
µ′ ← (max r(v, ℓ) + min r(v, ℓ))/2;
8
µ̂ ← E[r(v, ℓ)];
9
Set σ ′ (v, ℓ) = U [µ′ − ϵc , µ′ + ϵc ];
10
Set σ̂(v, ℓ) = U [µ̂ − ϵc , µ̂ + ϵc ];
11
end
12 end
′
13 Return H, G constructed from the input SRM with σ , σ̂ as output functions;
1

2

19

20

J. Corazza et al.

can be asymmetric then µ is not necessarily the center of [a, b], and setting
d = U ([µ − ϵc , µ + ϵc ]) can break the detection of counterexamples.
In Algorithm 3 solve this problem by using an auxiliary hypothesis G. This
is a purely technical choice, one may also implement a richer representation of
SRMs that can store both pieces of information and thus eliminate the need for
an auxiliary hypothesis. The main hypothesis H has outputs d = D([a, b]) that
are always ϵc -consistent with X, but do not necessarily follow the best available mean estimates. On the other hand, the auxiliary hypothesis G eschews
consistency in favor of using the best estimates. QRM is performed over the
auxiliary hypothesis which captures information about the environment reward
that is most immediately beneficial for learning the optimal policy. Hypothesis improvement (and counterexample detection) is performed over the main
hypothesis.
The Estimates function now returns both a new consistent hypothesis H,
and the new auxiliary hypothesis G. They are identical save for using different
estimators. Using the arithmetic mean for G ensures the SRM outputs used
in QRM are unbiased when empirical rewards are sampled from asymmetric
distributions. Using the mid-range for H preserves ϵc -consistency.

C

Proofs

C.1

Proof of Lemma 1 and Theorem 1

To prove Lemma 1 and Theorem 1 we first introduce an equivalence relation
∼ over SRMs: for A = (V, vI , 2P , O, δ, σ) and B = (V ′ , vI ′ , 2P , O′ , δ ′ , σ ′ ), A ∼ B
iff they are graph-isomorphic, i.e. if there exists a bijection I : V → V ′ s.t.
I(vI ) = vI ′ and δ ′ (I(v), ℓ) = I(δ(v, ℓ)) for all v ∈ V and ℓ ∈ 2P . For isomorphism
I : A 7→ B we define a function fI : V × 2P → R that "fixes" the outputs of A so
that it is equivalent in expectation to B i.e. E[σ(v, ℓ) + fI (v, ℓ)] = E[σ ′ (I(v), ℓ)].
Proof of Lemma 1 Lemma 1 states that machines that are equivalent in
expectation induce the same optimal policy over an MDP.
Proof. Let SRMs A = (V A , vI A , 2P , OA , δ A , σ A ) and B = (V B , vI B , 2P , OB , δ B ,
σ B ) be equivalent in expectation.
First, assume that A and B are graph-isomorphic with I : A 7→ B. We now
define a new SRM A′ which shares the state set and transition function with A,
but for a given state v ∈ V A and label ℓ, A′ outputs the corresponding distribution from B: let σ(v, ℓ) = σ B (I(v), ℓ)) and define A′ = (V A , vI A , 2P , OB , δ A , σ).
Because A ∼ B, we have B ∼ A′ . Furthermore, B and A′ are equivalent in the
sense of CDFs that they output. Because B is just A′ with different objects for
its states (given by I), they must induce the same optimal policy. For A and
′
A′ , the argument is that for every policy π((s, v), a) the Q-functions qπA and qπA
′
(induced by A and A respectively) in the cross-product MDP are identical by
definition, as they only care about expected reward: the process of obtaining

Reinforcement Learning with Stochastic Reward Machines

21

A′ by overwriting outputs in A preserves expected values. To conclude, when A
and B are equivalent in expectation and graph-isomorphic, they induce the same
optimal policy.
The general case when A and B are equivalent in expectation but not graphisomorphic is obtained by dropping down to classical non-stochastic reward machines Â and B̂ where equivalence in expectation implies equivalence. Â (B̂) is
constructed by overwriting outputs in A (B) with their expected values. Previous
reasoning then establishes that A and Â, since they are equivalent in expectation
and graph isomorphic, induce the same optimal policy (similarly for B and B̂).
Finally, A and B induce the same optimal policy because Â and B̂ do.
Inference of SRMs Before proving Theorem 1 we show that SRMI finds the
counterexamples necessary to improve its hypothesis. First, we formalize the
notion of attainable trajectories in Definition 5.
Definition 5. Let M = (S, sI , A, p, P, L) be a labeled MDP and m ∈ N a natural
number. We call a trajectory ζ = s0 a1 s1 . . . ak sk ∈ (S × A)∗ × S m-attainable
if (i) k ≤ m and (ii) p(si , ai , si+1 ) > 0 for each i ∈ {0, . . . , k}. Moreover, we
say that a trajectory ζ is attainable if there exists an m ∈ N such that ζ is
m-attainable.
We also refer to label sequences generated by attainable trajectories as attainable label sequences.
Lemma 2. SRMI with episode length m explores every m-attainable trajectory
with a non-zero probability.
Lemma 2 is proved with induction over the length of trajectories. The proof
for an equivalent result can be found in Xu et al. [22].
Corollary 2. SRMI with episode length m explores every m-attainable trajectory infinitely often.
Corollary 2 follows from Lemma 2 because in the limit, the probability of not
observing a trajectory falls to zero, so it will be observed again with probability
1.
Lemma 3 provides a lower bound on maximal episode length which allows
SRMI to observe sufficient evidence of structural dissimilarity between the hypothesis and the environment SRM. It states that if there are attainable trajectories which can generate a counterexample of Type 2 , then there exists a Type
2 counterexample that "fits" into an episode.
Lemma 3. For MDP M and environment SRM T (with dispersion ϵc ), let H
be the current hypothesis SRMI is using to explore M. Let ζ = s0 a1 s1 . . . ak sk be
an attainable trajectory in M, λ = ℓ1 ℓ2 . . . ℓk the corresponding label sequence,
and T (ℓ1 ℓ2 . . . ℓk ) = d1 d2 . . . dk (considered as a sequence of random variables)
the output of the environment SRM over λ. If (ℓ1 ℓ2 . . . ℓk , d1 d2 . . . dk ) is a plausible Type 2 counterexample, that is if for all G ∼ H (including H) we have

22

J. Corazza et al.

Pr(G ϵc -inconsistent with (λ, ρ) | ρ ∼ d1 d2 . . . dk ) > 0, then SRMI with episode
length m ≥ 2|M|+1 (|T | + 1) − 1 will eventually observe a Type 2 counterexample.
Proof. First assume that (1) there is a k-attainable label sequence λ, k > m ≥
2|M|+1 (|T | + 1) − 1, which can be sampled to generate a Type 2 counterexample
for H, and (2) there are no such n-attainable label sequences for n ≤ m. Let G
be an SRM s.t. G ∼ H and G ∼E T over all ℓ1 ℓ2 . . . ℓm . G exists because there are
no Type 2 counterexamples for H over n-attainable label sequences for n ≤ m.
Let T ′ (G ′ ) be a deterministic RM s.t. T ′ ∼E T (G ′ ∼E G). T ′ and G ′ agree
on all label sequences up to length m (m < k), but λ is a k-attainable label
sequence s.t. T ′ (λ) ̸= G ′ (λ). However, this contradicts the automata-theoretic
results in Xu et al. [22].
Lemma 3 and Corollary 2 together prove Corollary 3.
Corollary 3. Given sufficient episode length, SRMI almost surely finds Type 2
counterexamples if they exist.
Now that we have shown that SRMI will continue to find "structural flaws"
in its hypothesis if they exist, we will show that there is an endpoint of this
iterative structural improvement.
More formally, Lemma 4 states that SRMI does not revisit structurally isomorphic SRMs.
Lemma 4. Let H1 H2 · · · be the sequences of hypotheses generated by SRMI.
Let [Hi1 ][Hi2 ] · · · (with i1 = 1) be the sequence of ∼-equivalence classes obtained
from H1 H2 · · · by collapsing equivalent neighboring elemenents into their class.
Then for all j < k we have [Hij ] ̸= [Hik ].
Proof. The sequence H1 H2 · · · is induced by the counterexample sequence X1 X2
· · · (with Xj ⊂ Xk for all j < k) so that Hk is consistent with Xk−1 for all k > 1
(and thus every Xj for 1 ≤ j ≤ k − 1).
By definition, a counterexample of Type 1 induces a new hypothesis that
remains in the same class, while a Type 2 counterexample causes a "jump" to
the next class. Assume [Hij ] = [Hik ] for some j < k. Then there exists at least
one intermediate class [Hin ] (j < n < k) s.t. [Hin ] ∈
/ {[Hij ], [Hik ]} (otherwise
Hij · · · Hik gets collapsed into [Hij ]). Let I : Hij 7→ Hik be an isomorphism
and fI : V Hij × 2P → R the function that "fixes" outputs of Hij so that it is
equivalent in expectation to Hik . By applying fI to outputs of Hij we obtain
an SRM that is ϵc -consistent with Xik −1 (as all output transitions from any Hi
have the same range 2ϵc ). But since Xin −1 ⊂ Xik −1 this makes Hin ∈ [Hij ] as
all new counterexamples between Hij and Hin (and indeed Hik ) were of Type
1, a contradiction.
Due to Corollary 3, Lemma 4, and the fact that there are only finitely many
∼-equivalence classes for a fixed maximum number of states, we obtain Corollary 4.

Reinforcement Learning with Stochastic Reward Machines

23

Corollary 4. There exists a final equivalence class [Hf ] which will never be left.
With H1f H2f · · · we denote the subsequence of H1 H2 · · · comprised of elements from [Hf ].
Correcting output distributions The following two lemmas state that in
the Estimates step, eventually the reward sample sets r(v, ℓ) contain samples
from distributions with equal expectations (Lemma 5), and eventually the mean
estimators µ′ computed from those sets are unbiased (Lemma 6).
Lemma 5. For a machine H in the [Hf ] subsequence let CH be the set of all
traces in A consistent with H, and rH (v, ℓ) = {x ∈ R : (λℓ, ρx) ∈ Pref (C H ), H
in state v after reading λ} be the set of empirical rewards from traces in CH for
the transition from v on ℓ. Let d1 d2 . . . dn denote the different distributions that
elements of rH (v, ℓ) are sampled from. Then E[d1 ] = · · · = E[dn ].
Proof. We prove Lemma 5 in case when n = 2, the general statement follows
easily. Let rH (v, ℓ) contain samples from d1 and d2 such that E[d1 ] ̸= E[d2 ]. For
distribution d let R(d) ⊂ R be the image of d. Let [α, β] be the shortest interval
such that [α, β] ⊇ R(d1 ) ∪ R(d2 ). If β − α ≤ 2ϵc Assumption 1 is broken thus
β−α > 2ϵc . But then H ∈
/ [Hf ] because a Type 2 counterexample exists, and due
to C