# FULL TEXT — Three-way conflict analysis based on alliance and conflict functions

https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.21419v1

Three-Way Conflict Analysis Based on Alliance and Conflict Functions 

 1 Introduction 
 
 2 Three-way conflict analysis with a single evaluation function 
 
 2.1 Trisecting agents and issues with a rating function 
 2.2 Trisecting agent pairs with an auxiliary function 
 2.3 Examples 

 3 Alliance and conflict functions 
 
 3.1 Unaggregated alliance and conflict functions 
 3.2 Aggregated alliance and conflict functions 
 3.3 Examples 

 4 Alliance sets and their decisions 
 
 4.1 Alliance sets: Trisecting agent pairs with alliance and conflict functions 
 4.2 The decisions of alliance sets: Trisecting issues with alliance and conflict functions 
 4.3 Examples 

 5 Strategies and their relationships with agents 
 
 5.1 Describing strategies and their relationships with agents 
 5.2 Examples 

 6 Comparative analysis and an illustrative application 
 
 6.1 Comparative analysis 
 6.2 An illustrative application of the proposed models 

 7 Conclusions 

 Three-Way Conflict Analysis Based on Alliance and Conflict Functions 

 Junfang Luo
 
 junfangluo@163.com 

 Mengjun Hu
 
 mengjun.hu@uregina.ca 

 Guangming Lang
 
 langguangming1984@126.com 

 Xin Yang
 
 yangxin@swufe.edu.cn 

 Keyun Qin
 
 keyunqin@126.net 
 
 School of Economic Information Engineering, Southwestern University of Finance and Economics, Chengdu, 611130, P.R. China
 
 Department of Computer Science, University of Regina, Regina, SK, S4S 0A2, Canada
 
 School of Mathematics and Statistics, Changsha University of Science and Technology, Changsha, 611756, P.R. China
 
 College of Mathematics, Southwest Jiaotong University, Chengdu 610031, P.R. China

 Abstract 
 Trisecting agents, issues, and agent pairs are essential topics of three-way conflict analysis. They have been commonly studied based on either a rating or an auxiliary function. A rating function defines the positive, negative, or neutral ratings of agents on issues. An auxiliary function defines the alliance, conflict, and neutrality relations between agents. These functions measure two opposite aspects in a single function, leading to challenges in interpreting their aggregations over a group of issues or agents. For example, when studying agent relations regarding a set of issues, a standard aggregation takes the average of an auxiliary function concerning single issues. Therefore, a pair of alliance + 1 +1 and conflict − 1 -1 relations will produce the same result as a pair of neutrality 0 relations, although the attitudes represented by the two pairs are very different. To clarify semantics, we separate the two opposite aspects in an auxiliary function into a pair of alliance and conflict functions. Accordingly, we trisect the agents, issues, and agent pairs and investigate their applications in solving a few crucial questions in conflict analysis. Particularly, we explore the concepts of alliance sets and strategies. A real-world application is given to illustrate the proposed models. 

 keywords: 
Three-way decision, Conflict analysis, Alliance function, Conflict function, Alliance set, Strategy.

 † † journal: Elsevier 

 1 Introduction 
 
 Conflict analysis focuses on understanding and solving the conflict that arises from different attitudes held by agents or organizations towards a set of issues. Pawlak  Pawlak_1984 , Pawlak_1998 proposes a three-valued situation table to formally represent the attitudes, opinions, or ratings of a set of agents on a set of issues. In particular, each cell in the table takes a value of + 1 +1 , − 1 -1 , or 0 , indicating that an agent is favourable/positive, against/negative, or neutral towards an issue. Based on such a situation table, Pawlak  Pawlak_1984 , Pawlak_1998 further investigates the relations between agents, including the alliance, conflict, and neutrality relations. Following Pawlak’s formulation, many researchers have studied conflict analysis models from different perspectives  Deja_2002 , Jiang_2011 , Jabbour_2017 , Liu_2015 , Pawlak_1984 , Pawlak_2005 , Silva_2016 , Skowron_2002 , Skowron_2006 , Zhi_2019 . 

 The use of three ratings and three types of agent relations naturally links conflict analysis to the idea of thinking in threes that underlies the theory of three-way decision introduced by Yao  Yao_2012 , Yao_2018 , Yao_2021 . In a broad sense, three-way decision involves a philosophy of thinking in threes, a methodology of working in threes, and a mechanism of processing in threes  Yao_2021 . A popular concrete model is the Trisecting-Acting-Outcome (TAO) model  Yao_2018 , which involves dividing a whole into three parts, devising and applying strategies to process the three parts, and evaluating and optimizing the outcome. Three-way decision and its underlying philosophy of thinking in threes have been widely applied to many disciplines and fields  Luo_2020 , Yao_Hu_2018 , Zhang_2021 , Deng_2014 , Hu_2021 . Three-way classification  Hu_2014 , Hu_2019 , Maldonado_2020 , Xu_2020 , Yue_2020 , Zhao_2020 , Liu_2020 is one of the earliest studied specific topics of three-way decision. It focuses on trisecting a universe into positive instances, negative instances, and those in the boundary that cannot be determined to be positive or negative. Such a trisection is commonly based on the evaluation of objects. Yao  Yao_2012 summarizes two evaluation-based three-way classification models. One uses a single evaluation function to perform both the positive and negative evaluations, and the other uses two separate evaluation functions. The idea of computing with threes also appears in a few other topics, such as shadowed sets and bipolar representations. Pedrycz  Pedrycz_1998 , Pedrycz_2005 , Pedrycz_2009 proposes the concept of a shadowed set that transforms a fuzzy set into three disjoint elevated, reduced, and shadowed areas by applying two opposite operations of elevation and reduction. The idea of using three areas indicates a close connection between shadowed sets and three-way decision, which has been studied by a few researchers  Yang_2021 , Yao_Wang_2017 , Zhang_2020 , Zhao_2019 , Zhou_2021 . Dubois and Prade  Dubois_2008 , Dubois_2012 propose the concept of bipolarity, which refers to the propensity of the human mind for reasoning and decision-making based on the two opposite positive and negative effects. Although bipolarity shares many common features with three-way decision, their connections are not well explored in the literature. 

 Conflict analysis is one of the many topics that share a common idea of using threes with three-way decision. A combination of the two topics leads to three-way conflict analysis that studies a conflict situation via trisecting agents, issues, and agent pairs. Specifically, most research on three-way conflict analysis  Lang_2020_unification , Lang_2020_general , Sun_2015 , Sun_2016 , Sun_2020 , Fan_2018 , Lang_2017 , Lang_2019 , Yao_2019 , Li_2021 follows the three-way classification model based on a single evaluation function. Sun, Ma, and Zhao  Sun_2016 introduce a model of trisecting agents and issues by generalizing the concepts of lower and upper approximations over two universes in rough set theory. This work is further extended by Sun et al.  Sun_2020 based on the probabilistic rough set approximations over two universes. Lang, Miao, and Cai  Lang_2017 apply a pair of thresholds ( α , β ) (\alpha,\beta) on an evaluation function to trisect agent pairs instead of a single threshold of 0.5 0.5 in Pawlak’s model  Pawlak_1984 , Pawlak_1998 , Pawlak_2005 . Fan, Qi, and Wei  Fan_2018 propose a quantitative model of three-way conflict analysis based on an evaluation function generalized from derivation operators in formal concept analysis. Yao  Yao_2019 argues about the inconsistency of interpreting the neutral rating 0 in Pawlak’s model and discusses trisections of agents and agent pairs based on a single evaluation function. 

 A potential issue in most existing models is that they use a single evaluation function to reflect two opposite aspects. For instance, an auxiliary function commonly uses the positive value + 1 +1 for an alliance relation between two agents on a specific issue, the negative value − 1 -1 for a conflict relation, and the value 0 for a neutrality relation. This may lead to some difficulties in understanding and interpreting the computation of values from an auxiliary function. In particular, when investigating the relationships between agents on a set of issues, the average-based method is commonly used to aggregate the values from an auxiliary function on individual issues. Therefore, a pair of + 1 +1 and − 1 -1 gives the same result as a pair of 0 and 0. Consequently, two agents allied on one issue and in conflict on another have the same relation as two other agents that are neutral to each other on both issues. 

 To solve the above semantic issues, we use two separate functions to manage the two opposite aspects represented by an auxiliary function. Specifically, we use an alliance function and a conflict function, respectively, to evaluate the alliance and conflict degrees between two agents on a single issue. When it comes to a set of issues, the alliance and conflict degrees on individual issues are aggregated separately into an aggregated alliance degree and an aggregated conflict degree. These two aggregated degrees are then considered together to define the final alliance, neutrality, and conflict relations between two agents. Intuitively, we define the alliance relation if the alliance degree suggests strong alliance and the conflict degree suggests non-conflict, the conflict relation if it is the other way around, and the neutrality relation otherwise. Many other crucial topics in conflict analysis could also be investigated via the two proposed functions. Particularly, we explore the definition of alliance sets and the description of their decisions based on the trisections of agent pairs. With the trisections of issues and agents, we present to formulate a strategy as a conjunction of issue-rating pairs and further explore the relationships between strategies and agents. With a separation of alliance and conflict functions, we can gain a more in-depth understanding of the relations regarding agents and issues in conflict analysis. 

 The remainder of this paper is organized as follows.
Section  2 reviews basic concepts related to existing three-way conflict analysis with a single evaluation function, including a rating function and an auxiliary function. Section  3 presents the alliance and conflict functions that separate the two opposite aspects in an auxiliary function. Based on these two functions, we discuss the trisections of agents, issues, and agent pairs in Sections  4 and 5 . Particularly, Section  4 proposes the concept of alliance sets by trisecting agent pairs and investigates the representation of their decisions. Section  5 presents a formal description of a strategy (i.e., a logic conjunction of issue-rating pairs) and further investigates the trisection of agents towards a specific strategy. In Section  6 , we compare the proposed models with two evaluation functions and the existing models with a single evaluation function. An application with a real-world conflict situation is also given in Section  6 to illustrate the proposed models. In the end, Section  7 concludes this work and discusses possible directions for future work. 

 2 Three-way conflict analysis with a single evaluation function 
 
 This section reviews and summarizes basic concepts in three-way conflict analysis. Particularly, we discuss trisections with a single evaluation function, including trisections of agents, issues, and agent pairs. Examples are given at the end to illustrate the concepts. 

 2.1 Trisecting agents and issues with a rating function 
 
 A conflict problem is usually formulated by a three-valued situation table  Pawlak_1998 , Yao_2019 , which gives the opinions, attitudes, or ratings of agents on issues. The attitudes are commonly considered to have three cases, namely, positive, negative, and neutral, represented by three numeric values of + 1 +1 , − 1 -1 , and 0, respectively. A three-valued situation table is formally defined as follows. 

 Definition 1 . 

 A three-valued situation table is a triplet S = ( A , I , r ) S=(A,I,r) ,
where A A is a finite nonempty set of agents,
 I I is a finite nonempty set of issues,
and r : A × I → { + 1 , − 1 , 0 } r\mathrel{\mathop{\ordinarycolon}}A\times I\rightarrow\{+1,-1,0\} is a rating function.
The value r ​ ( x , i ) r(x,i) is called the rating of an agent x ∈ A x\in A on an issue i ∈ I i\in I and interpreted as follows: 

 { x ​ is ​ positive ​ on ​ i , iff ​ r ​ ( x , i ) = + 1 ; x ​ is ​ negative ​ on ​ i , iff ​ r ​ ( x , i ) = − 1 ; x ​ is ​ neutral ​ on ​ i , iff ​ r ​ ( x , i ) = 0 . \displaystyle\left\{\begin{array}[]{lcl}x{\rm~is~positive~on~}i, \quad {\rm iff~}r(x,i)=+1;\\
x{\rm~is~negative~on~}i, \quad {\rm iff~}r(x,i)=-1;\\
x{\rm~is~neutral~on~}i, \quad {\rm iff~}r(x,i)=0.\\
\end{array}\right. 

 Yao  Yao_2019 extends a three-valued situation table to a many-valued situation table, which considers ratings from the interval [ − 1 , + 1 ] [-1,+1] . We restrict our discussion to three-valued situation tables in this work. The generalization to many-valued situation tables might be a direction for our future work. According to the three ratings of agents on a specific issue, we can immediately construct a trisection of agents as follows. 

 Definition 2 . 

 For a subset of agents X ⊆ A X\subseteq A and an issue i ∈ I i\in I , the trisection of X X with respect to i i is defined as  Yao_2019 : 

 X i + \displaystyle X_{i}^{+} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { x ∈ X ∣ r ​ ( x , i ) = + 1 } , \displaystyle\{x\in X\mid r(x,i)=+1\}, 

 X i − \displaystyle X_{i}^{-} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { x ∈ X ∣ r ​ ( x , i ) = − 1 } , \displaystyle\{x\in X\mid r(x,i)=-1\}, 

 X i 0 \displaystyle X_{i}^{0} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { x ∈ X ∣ r ​ ( x , i ) = 0 } . \displaystyle\{x\in X\mid r(x,i)=0\}. 
 
 (2) 

 The three sets X i + X_{i}^{+} , X i − X_{i}^{-} , and X i 0 X_{i}^{0} include the agents with a positive, negative, and neutral rating on a single issue i i , respectively. When it comes to a set of issues, we need to aggregate the ratings of an agent on every single issue in the set. A commonly used method is to take the average  Yao_2019 . Formally, the rating of an agent x ∈ A x\in A on a nonempty subset of issues ∅ ≠ J ⊆ I \emptyset\neq J\subseteq I is given by a rating function r : A × ( 2 I − { ∅ } ) → [ − 1 , + 1 ] r\mathrel{\mathop{\ordinarycolon}}~A\times(2^{I}-\{\emptyset\})\rightarrow[-1,+1] as follows: 

 r ​ ( x , J ) \displaystyle r(x,J) 
 = \displaystyle= 
 ∑ i ∈ J r ​ ( x , i ) | J | , \displaystyle\frac{\sum\limits_{i\in J}r(x,i)}{|J|}, 
 
 (3) 

 where 2 I 2^{I} is the power set of I I and | J | |J| is the cardinality of J J . It should be noted that we use the same symbol r r to represent different rating functions for simplicity. One may simply differentiate the functions by their parameters. 

 The aggregated rating r ​ ( x , J ) r(x,J) can be any value in the interval [ − 1 , + 1 ] [-1,+1] . Accordingly, we may apply two thresholds on the aggregated ratings to construct a trisection of agents with respect to J J . 

 Definition 3 . 

 For a subset of agents X ⊆ A X\subseteq A and a nonempty subset of issues ∅ ≠ J ⊆ I \emptyset\neq J\subseteq I , the trisection of X X with respect to J J is defined as  Yao_2019 : 

 X J + \displaystyle X_{J}^{+} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { x ∈ X ∣ r ​ ( x , J ) ≥ h } , \displaystyle\{x\in X\mid r(x,J)\geq h\}, 

 X J − \displaystyle X_{J}^{-} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { x ∈ X ∣ r ​ ( x , J ) ≤ l } , \displaystyle\{x\in X\mid r(x,J)\leq l\}, 

 X J 0 \displaystyle X_{J}^{0} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { x ∈ X ∣ l r ​ ( x , J ) h } , \displaystyle\{x\in X\mid l r(x,J) h\}, 
 
 (4) 

 where ( l , h ) (l,h) is a pair of thresholds satisfying − 1 ≤ l 0 h ≤ + 1 -1\leq l 0 h\leq+1 . 

 Intuitively, if the aggregated rating r ​ ( x , J ) r(x,J) is high enough (i.e., r ​ ( x , J ) ≥ h r(x,J)\geq h ), the agent x x is considered to have a positive attitude on J J as a whole. Similarly, if r ​ ( x , J ) r(x,J) is low enough (i.e., r ​ ( x , J ) ≤ l r(x,J)\leq l ), x x is considered to have a negative attitude on J J . Otherwise, r ​ ( x , J ) r(x,J) is neither strong enough to suggest a positive nor a negative attitude and thus, x x is considered to have a neutral attitude on J J . 

 One can investigate the trisections of issues by simply exchanging the roles of agents and issues. Due to this reason, the trisections of issues are usually not explicitly explored in the literature. Although the trisections of issues follow the same formulations as the trisections of agents, they imply different meanings and views in understanding the conflict situation. Furthermore, the trisections of issues will also be investigated in our proposed models in the following sections. Thus, we briefly discuss the trisections of issues with respect to a single agent and a subset of agents. The trisection of issues with respect to a single agent can be obtained based on the ratings of agents. 

 Definition 4 . 

 For a subset of issues J ⊆ I J\subseteq I and an agent x ∈ A x\in A , the trisection of J J with respect to x x is defined as  Yao_2019 : 

 J x + \displaystyle J_{x}^{+} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { i ∈ J ∣ r ​ ( x , i ) = + 1 } , \displaystyle\{i\in J\mid r(x,i)=+1\}, 

 J x − \displaystyle J_{x}^{-} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { i ∈ J ∣ r ​ ( x , i ) = − 1 } , \displaystyle\{i\in J\mid r(x,i)=-1\}, 

 J x 0 \displaystyle J_{x}^{0} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { i ∈ J ∣ r ​ ( x , i ) = 0 } . \displaystyle\{i\in J\mid r(x,i)=0\}. 
 
 (5) 

 With respect to a nonempty set of agents, we aggregate their ratings on a single issue as the average. Formally, the aggregated rating function r : ( 2 A − { ∅ } ) × I → [ − 1 , + 1 ] r\mathrel{\mathop{\ordinarycolon}}(2^{A}-\{\emptyset\})\times I\rightarrow[-1,+1] is defined as: for ∅ ≠ X ⊆ A \emptyset\neq X\subseteq A and i ∈ I i\in I , 

 r ​ ( X , i ) \displaystyle r(X,i) 
 = \displaystyle= 
 ∑ x ∈ X r ​ ( x , i ) | X | . \displaystyle\frac{\sum\limits_{x\in X}r(x,i)}{|X|}. 
 
 (6) 

 Accordingly, one can trisect a set of issues as given in the following definition. 

 Definition 5 . 

 For a nonempty subset of agents ∅ ≠ X ⊆ A \emptyset\neq X\subseteq A and a subset of issues J ⊆ I J\subseteq I , the trisection of J J with respect to X X is defined as: 

 J X + \displaystyle J_{X}^{+} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { i ∈ J ∣ r ​ ( X , i ) ≥ h } , \displaystyle\{i\in J\mid r(X,i)\geq h\}, 

 J X − \displaystyle J_{X}^{-} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { i ∈ J ∣ r ​ ( X , i ) ≤ l } , \displaystyle\{i\in J\mid r(X,i)\leq l\}, 

 J X 0 \displaystyle J_{X}^{0} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { i ∈ J ∣ l r ​ ( X , i ) h } , \displaystyle\{i\in J\mid l r(X,i) h\}, 
 
 (7) 

 where ( l , h ) (l,h) is a pair of thresholds satisfying − 1 ≤ l 0 h ≤ + 1 -1\leq l 0 h\leq+1 . 

 Intuitively, if the aggregated rating from a group of agents X X on an issue i i is high enough (i.e., r ​ ( X , i ) ≥ h r(X,i)\geq h ), then the group X X as a whole is considered to have a positive attitude on i i . Similarly, if the aggregated rating is low enough (i.e., r ​ ( X , i ) ≤ l r(X,i)\leq l ), then the group has a negative attitude on i i . Otherwise, the group has a neutral attitude on i i . 

 2.2 Trisecting agent pairs with an auxiliary function 
 
 Another essential topic of three-way conflict analysis is investigating the relationships between agents. Basically, there are three relationships between agents, namely, the alliance, conflict, and neutrality relations  Pawlak_1984 . These relations are defined based on the ratings of agents on either a single issue or a subset of issues. An auxiliary function Φ \Phi is commonly used to help formulate the relations.
Intuitively, a positive value of Φ \Phi represents the tendency of alliance, and a negative value represents the tendency of conflict. 

 Formally, an auxiliary function with respect to a single issue i ∈ I i\in I is a three-valued mapping Φ i : A × A → { + 1 , − 1 , 0 } \Phi_{i}\mathrel{\mathop{\ordinarycolon}}~A\times A\rightarrow\{+1,-1,0\} , where the three values are interpreted as follows: 

 { x ​ and ​ y ​ are ​ allied ​ on ​ i , iff ​ Φ i ​ ( x , y ) = + 1 ; x ​ and ​ y ​ are ​ in ​ conflict ​ on ​ i , iff ​ Φ i ​ ( x , y ) = − 1 ; x ​ and ​ y ​ are ​ neutral ​ on ​ i , iff ​ Φ i ​ ( x , y ) = 0 . \displaystyle\left\{\begin{array}[]{lcl}x{\rm~and~}y{\rm~are~allied~on~}i, \quad {\rm iff~}\Phi_{i}(x,y)=+1;\\
x{\rm~and~}y{\rm~are~in~conflict~on~}i, \quad {\rm iff~}\Phi_{i}(x,y)=-1;\\
x{\rm~and~}y{\rm~are~neutral~on~}i, \quad {\rm iff~}\Phi_{i}(x,y)=0.\\
\end{array}\right. 

 The neutrality relation is simply interpreted as the two agents being neither allied nor in conflict. Accordingly, one can formally define a trisection of agent pairs with respect to a single issue. 

 Definition 6 . 

 Given an auxiliary function Φ i \Phi_{i} with respect to an issue i ∈ I i\in I , the alliance relation R i = R^{=}_{i} , conflict relation R i ≍ R_{i}^{\asymp} , and neutrality relation R i ≈ R_{i}^{\approx} between agents with respect to i i are defined as: 

 R i = \displaystyle R^{=}_{i} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { ( x , y ) ∈ A × A ∣ Φ i ​ ( x , y ) = + 1 } , \displaystyle\{(x,y)\in A\times A\mid\Phi_{i}(x,y)=+1\}, 

 R i ≍ \displaystyle R^{\asymp}_{i} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { ( x , y ) ∈ A × A ∣ Φ i ​ ( x , y ) = − 1 } , \displaystyle\{(x,y)\in A\times A\mid\Phi_{i}(x,y)=-1\}, 

 R i ≈ \displaystyle R^{\approx}_{i} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { ( x , y ) ∈ A × A ∣ Φ i ​ ( x , y ) = 0 } . \displaystyle\{(x,y)\in A\times A\mid\Phi_{i}(x,y)=0\}. 
 
 (9) 

 There are different specific definitions of Φ i \Phi_{i} as will be illustrated in Example  1 . Commonly, the following properties should be satisfied by a meaningful auxiliary function Φ i \Phi_{i} : 

 ( 1 ) \displaystyle(1) 
 
 Φ i ​ ( x , x ) = + 1 , \displaystyle\Phi_{i}(x,x)=+1, 

 ( 2 ) \displaystyle(2) 
 
 Φ i ​ ( x , y ) = Φ i ​ ( y , x ) . \displaystyle\Phi_{i}(x,y)=\Phi_{i}(y,x). 

 That is, an agent is always self-allied, and the value for x x and y y is equal to the value for y y and x x . The latter implies that the alliance, conflict, and neutrality relations are symmetric. In addition, it is reasonable to consider two agents to be allied if they both have a positive or negative attitude on the issue i i . Similarly, it is reasonable to consider two agents to be in conflict if one of them is positive and the other is negative. In the case where at least one agent holds a neutral rating, there are different views of defining the relations based on different understanding and interpretations of neutral ratings. From the above analysis, we define a general template of Φ i \Phi_{i} as follows: for x , y ∈ A x,y\in A , 

 Φ i ​ ( x , y ) \displaystyle\Phi_{i}(x,y) 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { + 1 , r ​ ( x , i ) ⋅ r ​ ( y , i ) = + 1 ​ or ​ x = y , − 1 , r ​ ( x , i ) ⋅ r ​ ( y , i ) = − 1 , , o ​ t ​ h ​ e ​ r ​ w ​ i ​ s ​ e , \displaystyle\left\{\begin{array}[]{lcl}+1, r(x,i)\cdot r(y,i)=+1~\mbox{or}~x=y,\\
-1, r(x,i)\cdot r(y,i)=-1,\\
, otherwise,\\
\end{array}\right. 
 
 (13) 

 where the notation ∗ * represents a value in { + 1 , − 1 , 0 } \{+1,-1,0\} . Since Φ i ​ ( x , y ) \Phi_{i}(x,y) is actually defined with respect to the ratings from x x and y y , we may alternatively use the notation Φ ​ ( r ​ ( x , i ) , r ​ ( y , i ) ) \Phi(r(x,i),r(y,i)) when we do not concern about the specific agents who hold the ratings. Table  1 shows the values of Φ i \Phi_{i} in the general template for two different agents. 

 r ​ ( x , i ) r(x,i) 

 r ​ ( y , i ) r(y,i) 

 + 1 +1 
 − 1 -1 
 0 

 + 1 +1 
 + 1 +1 
 − 1 -1 
 ∗ * 

 − 1 -1 
 − 1 -1 
 + 1 +1 
 ∗ * 

 0 
 ∗ * 
 ∗ * 
 ∗ * 

 Table 1 : The values of Φ ​ ( r ​ ( x , i ) , r ​ ( y , i ) ) \Phi(r(x,i),r(y,i)) with x ≠ y x\neq y 

 We can generalize the auxiliary function in Equation ( 13 ) with respect to a set of issues by simply taking the average. Formally, an auxiliary function Φ J : A × A → [ − 1 , + 1 ] \Phi_{J}\mathrel{\mathop{\ordinarycolon}}~A\times A\rightarrow[-1,+1] with respect to a subset of issues J ⊆ I J\subseteq I can be defined as follows Pawlak_1998 , Yao_2019 : 

 Φ J ​ ( x , y ) = { ∑ i ∈ J Φ i ​ ( x , y ) | J | , J ≠ ∅ , 0 , J = ∅ . \displaystyle\Phi_{J}(x,y)=\left\{\begin{array}[]{lcl}\frac{\sum\limits_{i\in J}\Phi_{i}(x,y)}{|J|}, J\neq\emptyset,\\
 \\
0, J=\emptyset.\\
\end{array}\right. 
 
 (17) 

 While Φ i \Phi_{i} is a three-valued function, Φ J \Phi_{J} is a many-valued function that takes values in the interval [ − 1 , + 1 ] [-1,+1] . Applying two thresholds on Φ J \Phi_{J} , one can immediately construct a trisection of agent pairs and accordingly, define the alliance, conflict, and neutrality relations. 

 Definition 7 . 

 Given an auxiliary function Φ J \Phi_{J} with respect to a subset of issues J ⊆ I J\subseteq I , the alliance relation R J = R_{J}^{=} , conflict relation R J ≍ R_{J}^{\asymp} , and neutrality relation R J ≈ R_{J}^{\approx} with respect to J J are defined as: 

 R J = \displaystyle R_{J}^{=} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { ( x , y ) ∈ A × A ∣ Φ J ​ ( x , y ) ≥ h } , \displaystyle\{(x,y)\in A\times A\mid\Phi_{J}(x,y)\geq h\}, 

 R J ≍ \displaystyle R_{J}^{\asymp} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { ( x , y ) ∈ A × A ∣ Φ J ​ ( x , y ) ≤ l } , \displaystyle\{(x,y)\in A\times A\mid\Phi_{J}(x,y)\leq l\}, 

 R J ≈ \displaystyle R_{J}^{\approx} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { ( x , y ) ∈ A × A ∣ l Φ J ​ ( x , y ) h } , \displaystyle\{(x,y)\in A\times A\mid l \Phi_{J}(x,y) h\}, 
 
 (18) 

 where ( l , h ) (l,h) is a pair of thresholds satisfying − 1 ≤ l 0 h ≤ + 1 -1\leq l 0 h\leq+1 . 

 Intuitively, two agents x x and y y are allied on J J if they have a high tendency for alliance (i.e., Φ J ​ ( x , y ) ≥ h \Phi_{J}(x,y)\geq h ). They are in conflict if their tendency for conflict is strong enough (i.e., Φ J ​ ( x , y ) ≤ l \Phi_{J}(x,y)\leq l ). Otherwise, they are neutral on J J . 

 Aggregating ratings with respect to a group of issues or agents leads to continuous values from the interval [ − 1 , + 1 ] [-1,+1] instead of the three discrete values + 1 +1 , − 1 -1 , and 0 . Accordingly, the trisections with respect to a group of issues or agents need a pair of thresholds ( l , h ) (l,h) to cut the continuous aggregated values, as in Definitions  3 , 5 , and 7 . This idea is also commonly used in other topics to transform a set of continuous quantitative values into several qualitative parts or levels. For example, a shadowed set  Pedrycz_1998 , Pedrycz_2005 , Pedrycz_2009 adopts a similar idea to transform a fuzzy set with continuous membership degrees in the unit interval [ 0 , 1 ] [0,1] into three qualitative levels of membership degrees. The transformation is performed through two operations of elevation and reduction with a pair of thresholds. Particularly, the elevation operation elevates the membership degrees at or above one threshold to 1, and the reduction operation reduces the membership degrees at or below another threshold to 0. The membership degrees between the two thresholds are mapped to the whole unit interval [ 0 , 1 ] [0,1] . A shadowed set can also be considered as a three-way approximation of fuzzy sets  Yao_Wang_2017 . The trisections in Definitions  3 , 5 , and 7 can also be explained through similar elevation and reduction operations. We elevate an evaluation value from a rating function (or an auxiliary function) to + 1 +1 that represents a positive attitude (or an alliance relation) if it is higher than or equal to a threshold h h . Similarly, we reduce an evaluation value from a rating function (or an auxiliary function) to − 1 -1 that represents a negative attitude (or a conflict relation) if it is lower than or equal to another threshold l l . For a value in-between the two thresholds, we either elevate or reduce it to the neutral value 0. A similar idea of dealing with values between two thresholds is also discussed for shadowed sets by Yao, Wang, and Deng  Yao_Wang_2017 , where they either elevate or reduce the values to a middle membership degree of 0.5. It is an interesting direction of our future work to further investigate the relations between conflict analysis and shadowed sets in this regard. 

 2.3 Examples 
 
 We give two examples to illustrate the concepts discussed in this section. Particularly, Example  1 illustrates specific auxiliary functions that fit into our general template in Equation ( 13 ) and Example  2 illustrates the trisections. 

 Example 1 ( Pawlak’s and Yao’s auxiliary functions ) . 

 We have proposed a general definition of an auxiliary function in Equation ( 13 ). Here, we review two specific auxiliary functions proposed by Pawlak  Pawlak_1998 and Yao  Yao_2019 in terms of our general definition. Concretely, for any two agents x , y ∈ A x,y\in A and an issue i ∈ I i\in I , Pawlak defines the auxiliary function Φ i P : A × A ⟶ { + 1 , − 1 , 0 } \Phi_{i}^{P}\mathrel{\mathop{\ordinarycolon}}A\times A\longrightarrow\{+1,-1,0\} as: 

 Φ i P ​ ( x , y ) \displaystyle\Phi_{i}^{P}(x,y) 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { + 1 , r ​ ( x , i ) ⋅ r ​ ( y , i ) = + 1 ​ or ​ x = y , − 1 , r ​ ( x , i ) ⋅ r ​ ( y , i ) = − 1 , 0 , r ​ ( x , i ) ⋅ r ​ ( y , i ) = 0 ​ and ​ x ≠ y . \displaystyle\left\{\begin{array}[]{lcl}+1, r(x,i)\cdot r(y,i)=+1~\mbox{or}~x=y,\\
-1, r(x,i)\cdot r(y,i)=-1,\\
0, r(x,i)\cdot r(y,i)=0~\mbox{and}~x\neq y.\\
\end{array}\right. 
 
 (22) 

 Instead of defining an auxiliary function, Yao proposes a distance function regarding two agents on a single issue. An auxiliary function can be easily defined based on the distance function. For x , y ∈ A x,y\in A and i ∈ I i\in I , the Yao’s auxiliary function Φ i Y : A × A ⟶ { + 1 , − 1 , 0 } \Phi_{i}^{Y}\mathrel{\mathop{\ordinarycolon}}A\times A\longrightarrow\{+1,-1,0\} can be defined as: 

 Φ i Y ​ ( x , y ) \displaystyle\Phi_{i}^{Y}(x,y) 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { + 1 , r ​ ( x , i ) = r ​ ( y , i ) , − 1 , r ​ ( x , i ) ⋅ r ​ ( y , i ) = − 1 , 0 , r ​ ( x , i ) ⋅ r ​ ( y , i ) = 0 ​ and ​ r ​ ( x , i ) ≠ r ​ ( y , i ) . \displaystyle\left\{\begin{array}[]{lcl}+1, r(x,i)=r(y,i),\\
-1, r(x,i)\cdot r(y,i)=-1,\\
0, r(x,i)\cdot r(y,i)=0~\mbox{and}~r(x,i)\neq r(y,i).\\
\end{array}\right. 
 
 (26) 

 r ​ ( x , i ) r(x,i) 

 r ​ ( y , i ) r(y,i) 

 + 1 +1 
 − 1 -1 
 0 

 + 1 +1 
 + 1 +1 
 − 1 -1 
 0 

 − 1 -1 
 − 1 -1 
 + 1 +1 
 0 

 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 

 (a) Φ P ​ ( r ​ ( x , i ) , r ​ ( y , i ) ) \Phi^{P}(r(x,i),r(y,i)) with x ≠ y x\neq y 

 r ​ ( x , i ) r(x,i) 

 r ​ ( y , i ) r(y,i) 

 + 1 +1 
 − 1 -1 
 0 

 + 1 +1 
 + 1 +1 
 − 1 -1 
 0 

 − 1 -1 
 − 1 -1 
 + 1 +1 
 0 

 0 
 0 
 0 
 + 1 +1 

 (b) Φ Y ​ ( r ​ ( x , i ) , r ​ ( y , i ) ) \Phi^{Y}(r(x,i),r(y,i)) with x ≠ y x\neq y 

 Table 2 : The values of Φ P ​ ( r ​ ( x , i ) , r ​ ( y , i ) ) \Phi^{P}(r(x,i),r(y,i)) and Φ Y ​ ( r ​ ( x , i ) , r ​ ( y , i ) ) \Phi^{Y}(r(x,i),r(y,i)) with x ≠ y x\neq y 

 To clearly show the difference between Pawlak’s and Yao’s auxiliary functions, Table  2 gives the values of Φ i P \Phi_{i}^{P} and Φ i Y \Phi_{i}^{Y} for two different agents. These two auxiliary functions differ in the understanding of the relations between two different agents with both neutral ratings on an issue i i . Concretely, for two different agents x , y ∈ A x,y\in A with r ​ ( x , i ) = r ​ ( y , i ) = 0 r(x,i)=r(y,i)=0 , in Pawlak’s opinion, they are neutral on i i , that is, Φ P ​ ( r ​ ( x , i ) , r ​ ( x , i ) ) = 0 \Phi^{P}(r(x,i),r(x,i))=0 ; in Yao’s opinion, they are allied on i i , that is, Φ Y ​ ( r ​ ( x , i ) , r ​ ( x , i ) ) = + 1 \Phi^{Y}(r(x,i),r(x,i))=+1 . 

 With respect to a set of issues J ⊆ I J\subseteq I , we could apply the general template in Equation ( 17 ) with Pawlak’s auxiliary function in Equation ( 22 ) and get the following aggregated auxiliary function: 

 Φ J P ​ ( x , y ) = { ∑ i ∈ J Φ i P ​ ( x , y ) | J | , J ≠ ∅ , 0 , J = ∅ . \Phi_{J}^{P}(x,y)=\left\{\begin{array}[]{lcl}\frac{\sum\limits_{i\in J}\Phi_{i}^{P}(x,y)}{|J|}, J\neq\emptyset,\\
 \\
0, J=\emptyset.\\
\end{array}\right.\\

 (27) 

 Similarly, we can define Yao’s auxiliary function with respect to J J as: 

 Φ J Y ​ ( x , y ) = { ∑ i ∈ J Φ i Y ​ ( x , y ) | J | , J ≠ ∅ , 0 , J = ∅ . \Phi_{J}^{Y}(x,y)=\left\{\begin{array}[]{lcl}\frac{\sum\limits_{i\in J}\Phi_{i}^{Y}(x,y)}{|J|}, J\neq\emptyset,\\
 \\
0, J=\emptyset.\\
\end{array}\right. 
 
 (28) 

 Example 2 ( Trisections of agents, issues, and agent pairs ) . 

 We illustrate the trisections of agents and issues using the rating functions r r defined in Section 2.1 , and the trisection of agent pairs using Pawlak’s and Yao’s auxiliary functions given in the above Example 1 . Consider the three-valued situation table given in Table  3 . For simplicity, we consider a set of agents X = A = { x 1 , x 2 , x 3 , x 4 , x 5 , x 6 } X=A=\{x_{1},x_{2},x_{3},x_{4},x_{5},x_{6}\} and a set of issues J = I = { i 1 , i 2 , i 3 , i 4 , i 5 } J=I=\{i_{1},i_{2},i_{3},i_{4},i_{5}\} when constructing the trisections. 

 A A 

 I I 

 i 1 i_{1} 
 i 2 i_{2} 
 i 3 i_{3} 
 i 4 i_{4} 
 i 5 i_{5} 

 x 1 x_{1} 
 + 1 +1 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 

 x 2 x_{2} 
 − 1 -1 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 

 x 3 x_{3} 
 + 1 +1 
 + 1 +1 
 + 1 +1 
 + 1 +1 
 + 1 +1 

 x 4 x_{4} 
 − 1 -1 
 + 1 +1 
 + 1 +1 
 + 1 +1 
 + 1 +1 

 x 5 x_{5} 
 + 1 +1 
 + 1 +1 
 + 1 +1 
 − 1 -1 
 − 1 -1 

 x 6 x_{6} 
 + 1 +1 
 + 1 +1 
 − 1 -1 
 − 1 -1 
 − 1 -1 

 Table 3 : A three-valued situation table 

 Firstly, we construct the trisection of agents X X with respect to J J . According to the aggregated rating function in Equation ( 3 ), we compute the ratings of every agent in X X on J J as: 

 r ​ ( x 1 , J ) \displaystyle r(x_{1},J) 
 = \displaystyle= 
 ( + 1 ) + 0 + 0 + 0 + 0 5 = + 1 5 , \displaystyle\frac{(+1)+0+0+0+0}{5}=+\frac{1}{5}, 

 r ​ ( x 2 , J ) \displaystyle r(x_{2},J) 
 = \displaystyle= 
 ( − 1 ) + 0 + 0 + 0 + 0 5 = − 1 5 , \displaystyle\frac{(-1)+0+0+0+0}{5}=-\frac{1}{5}, 

 r ​ ( x 3 , J ) \displaystyle r(x_{3},J) 
 = \displaystyle= 
 ( + 1 ) + ( + 1 ) + ( + 1 ) + ( + 1 ) + ( + 1 ) 5 = + 1 , \displaystyle\frac{(+1)+(+1)+(+1)+(+1)+(+1)}{5}=+1, 

 r ​ ( x 4 , J ) \displaystyle r(x_{4},J) 
 = \displaystyle= 
 ( − 1 ) + ( + 1 ) + ( + 1 ) + ( + 1 ) + ( + 1 ) 5 = + 3 5 , \displaystyle\frac{(-1)+(+1)+(+1)+(+1)+(+1)}{5}=+\frac{3}{5}, 

 r ​ ( x 5 , J ) \displaystyle r(x_{5},J) 
 = \displaystyle= 
 ( + 1 ) + ( + 1 ) + ( + 1 ) + ( − 1 ) + ( − 1 ) 5 = + 1 5 , \displaystyle\frac{(+1)+(+1)+(+1)+(-1)+(-1)}{5}=+\frac{1}{5}, 

 r ​ ( x 6 , J ) \displaystyle r(x_{6},J) 
 = \displaystyle= 
 ( + 1 ) + ( + 1 ) + ( − 1 ) + ( − 1 ) + ( − 1 ) 5 = − 1 5 . \displaystyle\frac{(+1)+(+1)+(-1)+(-1)+(-1)}{5}=-\frac{1}{5}. 
 
 (29) 

 By applying a pair of thresholds ( − 3 5 , + 3 5 ) (-\frac{3}{5},+\frac{3}{5}) , we get the trisection of X X according to Definition  3 as: 

 X J + \displaystyle X_{J}^{+} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { x ∈ X ∣ r ​ ( x , J ) ≥ + 3 5 } = { x 3 , x 4 } , \displaystyle\{x\in X\mid r(x,J)\geq+\frac{3}{5}\}=\{x_{3},x_{4}\}, 

 X J − \displaystyle X_{J}^{-} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { x ∈ X ∣ r ​ ( x , J ) ≤ − 3 5 } = ∅ , \displaystyle\{x\in X\mid r(x,J)\leq-\frac{3}{5}\}=\emptyset, 

 X J 0 \displaystyle X_{J}^{0} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { x ∈ X ∣ − 3 5 r ​ ( x , J ) + 3 5 } = { x 1 , x 2 , x 5 , x 6 } . \displaystyle\{x\in X\mid-\frac{3}{5} r(x,J) +\frac{3}{5}\}=\{x_{1},x_{2},x_{5},x_{6}\}. 
 
 (30) 

 Secondly, we construct the trisection of issues J J with respect to X X . According to the aggregated rating function in Equation ( 6 ), we compute the ratings of agents in X X as a whole on every issue in J J as: 

 r ​ ( X , i 1 ) \displaystyle r(X,i_{1}) 
 = \displaystyle= 
 ( + 1 ) + ( − 1 ) + ( + 1 ) + ( − 1 ) + ( + 1 ) + ( + 1 ) 6 = + 1 3 , \displaystyle\frac{(+1)+(-1)+(+1)+(-1)+(+1)+(+1)}{6}=+\frac{1}{3}, 

 r ​ ( X , i 2 ) \displaystyle r(X,i_{2}) 
 = \displaystyle= 
 0 + 0 + ( + 1 ) + ( + 1 ) + ( + 1 ) + ( + 1 ) 6 = + 2 3 , \displaystyle\frac{0+0+(+1)+(+1)+(+1)+(+1)}{6}=+\frac{2}{3}, 

 r ​ ( X , i 3 ) \displaystyle r(X,i_{3}) 
 = \displaystyle= 
 0 + 0 + ( + 1 ) + ( + 1 ) + ( + 1 ) + ( − 1 ) 6 = + 1 3 , \displaystyle\frac{0+0+(+1)+(+1)+(+1)+(-1)}{6}=+\frac{1}{3}, 

 r ​ ( X , i 4 ) \displaystyle r(X,i_{4}) 
 = \displaystyle= 
 0 + 0 + ( + 1 ) + ( + 1 ) + ( − 1 ) + ( − 1 ) 6 = 0 , \displaystyle\frac{0+0+(+1)+(+1)+(-1)+(-1)}{6}=0, 

 r ​ ( X , i 5 ) \displaystyle r(X,i_{5}) 
 = \displaystyle= 
 0 + 0 + ( + 1 ) + ( + 1 ) + ( − 1 ) + ( − 1 ) 6 = 0 . \displaystyle\frac{0+0+(+1)+(+1)+(-1)+(-1)}{6}=0. 
 
 (31) 

 By applying a pair of thresholds ( − 1 3 , + 1 3 ) (-\frac{1}{3},+\frac{1}{3}) , we get the trisection of J J according to Definition  5 as: 

 J X + \displaystyle J_{X}^{+} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { i ∈ J ∣ r ​ ( X , i ) ≥ + 1 3 } = { i 1 , i 2 , i 3 } , \displaystyle\{i\in J\mid r(X,i)\geq+\frac{1}{3}\}=\{i_{1},i_{2},i_{3}\}, 

 J X − \displaystyle J_{X}^{-} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { i ∈ J ∣ r ​ ( X , i ) ≤ − 1 3 } = ∅ , \displaystyle\{i\in J\mid r(X,i)\leq-\frac{1}{3}\}=\emptyset, 

 J X 0 \displaystyle J_{X}^{0} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { i ∈ J ∣ − 1 3 r ​ ( X , i ) + 1 3 } = { i 4 , i 5 } . \displaystyle\{i\in J\mid-\frac{1}{3} r(X,i) +\frac{1}{3}\}=\{i_{4},i_{5}\}. 
 
 (32) 

 Finally, we construct the trisection of agent pairs using Pawlak’s and Yao’s auxiliary functions. According to Equations ( 27 ) and ( 28 ), we compute Pawlak’s and Yao’s auxiliary functions with respect to J J as given in Table  4 . For example, for the two agents x 1 x_{1} and x 2 x_{2} , we have: 

 Φ J P ​ ( x 1 , x 2 ) = ∑ i ∈ J Φ i P ​ ( x 1 , x 2 ) | J | = ( − 1 ) + 0 + 0 + 0 + 0 5 = − 1 5 ; \displaystyle\Phi_{J}^{P}(x_{1},x_{2})=\frac{\sum\limits_{i\in J}\Phi_{i}^{P}(x_{1},x_{2})}{|J|}=\frac{(-1)+0+0+0+0}{5}=-\frac{1}{5}; 

 Φ J Y ​ ( x 1 , x 2 ) = ∑ i ∈ J Φ i Y ​ ( x 1 , x 2 ) | J | = ( − 1 ) + ( + 1 ) + ( + 1 ) + ( + 1 ) + ( + 1 ) 5 = + 3 5 . \displaystyle\Phi_{J}^{Y}(x_{1},x_{2})=\frac{\sum\limits_{i\in J}\Phi_{i}^{Y}(x_{1},x_{2})}{|J|}=\frac{(-1)+(+1)+(+1)+(+1)+(+1)}{5}=+\frac{3}{5}. 
 
 (33) 

 x 1 x_{1} 
 x 2 x_{2} 
 x 3 x_{3} 
 x 4 x_{4} 
 x 5 x_{5} 
 x 6 x_{6} 

 Φ J P \Phi_{J}^{P} 
 Φ J Y \Phi_{J}^{Y} 
 Φ J P \Phi_{J}^{P} 
 Φ J Y \Phi_{J}^{Y} 
 Φ J P \Phi_{J}^{P} 
 Φ J Y \Phi_{J}^{Y} 
 Φ J P \Phi_{J}^{P} 
 Φ J Y \Phi_{J}^{Y} 
 Φ J P \Phi_{J}^{P} 
 Φ J Y \Phi_{J}^{Y} 
 Φ J P \Phi_{J}^{P} 
 Φ J Y \Phi_{J}^{Y} 

 x 1 x_{1} 
 +1 
 +1 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 + 3 5 +\frac{3}{5} 
 + 1 5 +\frac{1}{5} 
 + 1 5 +\frac{1}{5} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 + 1 5 +\frac{1}{5} 
 + 1 5 +\frac{1}{5} 
 + 1 5 +\frac{1}{5} 
 + 1 5 +\frac{1}{5} 

 x 2 x_{2} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 + 3 5 +\frac{3}{5} 
 +1 
 +1 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 + 1 5 +\frac{1}{5} 
 + 1 5 +\frac{1}{5} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 

 x 3 x_{3} 
 + 1 5 +\frac{1}{5} 
 + 1 5 +\frac{1}{5} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 +1 
 +1 
 + 3 5 +\frac{3}{5} 
 + 3 5 +\frac{3}{5} 
 + 1 5 +\frac{1}{5} 
 + 1 5 +\frac{1}{5} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 

 x 4 x_{4} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 + 1 5 +\frac{1}{5} 
 + 1 5 +\frac{1}{5} 
 + 3 5 +\frac{3}{5} 
 + 3 5 +\frac{3}{5} 
 + 1 +1 
 + 1 +1 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 − 3 5 -\frac{3}{5} 
 − 3 5 -\frac{3}{5} 

 x 5 x_{5} 
 + 1 5 +\frac{1}{5} 
 + 1 5 +\frac{1}{5} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 + 1 5 +\frac{1}{5} 
 + 1 5 +\frac{1}{5} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 + 1 +1 
 + 1 +1 
 + 3 5 +\frac{3}{5} 
 + 3 5 +\frac{3}{5} 

 x 6 x_{6} 
 + 1 5 +\frac{1}{5} 
 + 1 5 +\frac{1}{5} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 − 1 5 -\frac{1}{5} 
 − 3 5 -\frac{3}{5} 
 − 3 5 -\frac{3}{5} 
 + 3 5 +\frac{3}{5} 
 + 3 5 +\frac{3}{5} 
 + 1 +1 
 + 1 +1 

 Table 4 : The values of auxiliary functions Φ J P \Phi_{J}^{P} and Φ J Y \Phi_{J}^{Y} 

 By applying a pair of thresholds ( − 1 2 , + 1 2 ) (-\frac{1}{2},+\frac{1}{2}) , we construct the trisections of agent pairs according to Definition  7 . The trisection based on Pawlak’s auxiliary function in Table  4 is constructed as: 

 R J = P \displaystyle R_{J}^{=P} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { ( x , y ) ∈ A × A ∣ Φ J P ​ ( x , y ) ≥ + 1 2 } , \displaystyle\{(x,y)\in A\times A\mid\Phi_{J}^{P}(x,y)\geq+\frac{1}{2}\}, 

 = \displaystyle= 
 { ( x 1 , x 1 ) , ( x 2 , x 2 ) , ( x 3 , x 3 ) , ( x 3 , x 4 ) , ( x 4 , x 3 ) , ( x 4 , x 4 ) , ( x 5 , x 5 ) , ( x 5 , x 6 ) , ( x 6 , x 5 ) , ( x 6 , x 6 ) } , \displaystyle\{(x_{1},x_{1}),(x_{2},x_{2}),(x_{3},x_{3}),(x_{3},x_{4}),(x_{4},x_{3}),(x_{4},x_{4}),(x_{5},x_{5}),(x_{5},x_{6}),(x_{6},x_{5}),(x_{6},x_{6})\}, 

 R J ≍ P \displaystyle R_{J}^{\asymp P} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { ( x , y ) ∈ A × A ∣ Φ J P ​ ( x , y ) ≤ − 1 2 } , \displaystyle\{(x,y)\in A\times A\mid\Phi_{J}^{P}(x,y)\leq-\frac{1}{2}\}, 

 = \displaystyle= 
 { ( x 4 , x 6 ) , ( x 6 , x 4 ) } , \displaystyle\{(x_{4},x_{6}),(x_{6},x_{4})\}, 

 R J ≈ P \displaystyle R_{J}^{\approx P} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { ( x , y ) ∈ A × A ∣ − 1 2 Φ J P ​ ( x , y ) + 1 2 } , \displaystyle\{(x,y)\in A\times A\mid-\frac{1}{2} \Phi_{J}^{P}(x,y) +\frac{1}{2}\}, 
 
 (34) 

 = \displaystyle= 
 { ( x 1 , x 2 ) , ( x 1 , x 3 ) , ( x 1 , x 4 ) , ( x 1 , x 5 ) , ( x 1 , x 6 ) , ( x 2 , x 1 ) , ( x 2 , x 3 ) , ( x 2 , x 4 ) , ( x 2 , x 5 ) , ( x 2 , x 6 ) , \displaystyle\{(x_{1},x_{2}),(x_{1},x_{3}),(x_{1},x_{4}),(x_{1},x_{5}),(x_{1},x_{6}),(x_{2},x_{1}),(x_{2},x_{3}),(x_{2},x_{4}),(x_{2},x_{5}),(x_{2},x_{6}), 

 ( x 3 , x 1 ) , ( x 3 , x 2 ) , ( x 3 , x 5 ) , ( x 3 , x 6 ) , ( x 4 , x 1 ) , ( x 4 , x 2 ) , ( x 4 , x 5 ) , \displaystyle~(x_{3},x_{1}),(x_{3},x_{2}),(x_{3},x_{5}),(x_{3},x_{6}),(x_{4},x_{1}),(x_{4},x_{2}),(x_{4},x_{5}), 

 ( x 5 , x 1 ) , ( x 5 , x 2 ) , ( x 5 , x 3 ) , ( x 5 , x 4 ) , ( x 6 , x 1 ) , ( x 6 , x 2 ) , ( x 6 , x 3 ) } . \displaystyle~(x_{5},x_{1}),(x_{5},x_{2}),(x_{5},x_{3}),(x_{5},x_{4}),(x_{6},x_{1}),(x_{6},x_{2}),(x_{6},x_{3})\}. 

 The trisection based on Yao’s auxiliary function in Table  4 is constructed as: 

 R J = Y \displaystyle R_{J}^{=Y} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { ( x , y ) ∈ A × A ∣ Φ J Y ​ ( x , y ) ≥ + 1 2 } , \displaystyle\{(x,y)\in A\times A\mid\Phi_{J}^{Y}(x,y)\geq+\frac{1}{2}\}, 

 = \displaystyle= 
 { ( x 1 , x 1 ) , ( x 1 , x 2 ) , ( x 2 , x 1 ) , ( x 2 , x 2 ) , ( x 3 , x 3 ) , ( x 3 , x 4 ) , ( x 4 , x 3 ) , ( x 4 , x 4 ) , \displaystyle\{(x_{1},x_{1}),(x_{1},x_{2}),(x_{2},x_{1}),(x_{2},x_{2}),(x_{3},x_{3}),(x_{3},x_{4}),(x_{4},x_{3}),(x_{4},x_{4}), 

 ( x 5 , x 5 ) , ( x 5 , x 6 ) , ( x 6 , x 5 ) , ( x 6 , x 6 ) } , \displaystyle~(x_{5},x_{5}),(x_{5},x_{6}),(x_{6},x_{5}),(x_{6},x_{6})\}, 

 R J ≍ Y \displaystyle R_{J}^{\asymp Y} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { ( x , y ) ∈ A × A ∣ Φ J Y ​ ( x , y ) ≤ − 1 2 } , \displaystyle\{(x,y)\in A\times A\mid\Phi_{J}^{Y}(x,y)\leq-\frac{1}{2}\}, 

 = \displaystyle= 
 { ( x 4 , x 6 ) , ( x 6 , x 4 ) } , \displaystyle\{(x_{4},x_{6}),(x_{6},x_{4})\}, 

 R J ≈ Y \displaystyle R_{J}^{\approx Y} 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { ( x , y ) ∈ A × A ∣ − 1 2 Φ J Y ​ ( x , y ) + 1 2 } , \displaystyle\{(x,y)\in A\times A\mid-\frac{1}{2} \Phi_{J}^{Y}(x,y) +\frac{1}{2}\}, 
 
 (35) 

 = \displaystyle= 
 { ( x 1 , x 3 ) , ( x 1 , x 4 ) , ( x 1 , x 5 ) , ( x 1 , x 6 ) , ( x 2 , x 3 ) , ( x 2 , x 4 ) , ( x 2 , x 5 ) , ( x 2 , x 6 ) , \displaystyle\{(x_{1},x_{3}),(x_{1},x_{4}),(x_{1},x_{5}),(x_{1},x_{6}),(x_{2},x_{3}),(x_{2},x_{4}),(x_{2},x_{5}),(x_{2},x_{6}), 

 ( x 3 , x 1 ) , ( x 3 , x 2 ) , ( x 3 , x 5 ) , ( x 3 , x 6 ) , ( x 4 , x 1 ) , ( x 4 , x 2 ) , ( x 4 , x 5 ) , \displaystyle~(x_{3},x_{1}),(x_{3},x_{2}),(x_{3},x_{5}),(x_{3},x_{6}),(x_{4},x_{1}),(x_{4},x_{2}),(x_{4},x_{5}), 

 ( x 5 , x 1 ) , ( x 5 , x 2 ) , ( x 5 , x 3 ) , ( x 5 , x 4 ) , ( x 6 , x 1 ) , ( x 6 , x 2 ) , ( x 6 , x 3 ) } . \displaystyle~(x_{5},x_{1}),(x_{5},x_{2}),(x_{5},x_{3}),(x_{5},x_{4}),(x_{6},x_{1}),(x_{6},x_{2}),(x_{6},x_{3})\}. 

 3 Alliance and conflict functions 
 
 We present the alliance and conflict functions that separate the two opposite semantics measured in one auxiliary function, including both unaggregated and aggregated formulations. Examples are given at the end to illustrate the presented concepts. 

 3.1 Unaggregated alliance and conflict functions 
 
 As discussed in the previous section, the existing trisections of agents, issues, and agent pairs in three-way conflict analysis are commonly based on a single evaluation function, either a rating or an auxiliary function. A common feature of these functions is that they measure two opposite attitudes or relations in one formula. The rating function gives both positive and negative attitudes, and the auxiliary function defines both alliance and conflict relations. This may induce certain difficulties in understanding, interpreting, and applying these functions in analyzing conflict problems. For example, when using the average function to aggregate the ratings of an agent on a set of issues, two opposite ratings + 1 +1 and − 1 -1 on two issues have the same effect as two neutral ratings 0 and 0 . This issue is actually illustrated in Example  2 , where the aggregated ratings of agents x 1 x_{1} and x 5 x_{5} on J = { i 1 , i 2 , i 3 , i 4 , i 5 } J=\{i_{1},i_{2},i_{3},i_{4},i_{5}\} are r ​ ( x 1 , J ) = r ​ ( x 5 , J ) = + 1 5 r(x_{1},J)=r(x_{5},J)=+\frac{1}{5} (see Equation ( 2 )). As a result, x 1 x_{1} and x 5 x_{5} are determined to have the same attitude toward the set of issues J J , even though x 1 x_{1} clearly expresses a non-neutral attitude on issue i 1 i_{1} only, and x 5 x_{5} has non-neutral attitudes on all issues in J J . As a mirror image, aggregating the ratings of a set of agents on a single issue also faces the same challenge. 

 There is a similar difficulty in aggregating an auxiliary function Φ i \Phi_{i} into Φ J \Phi_{J} . A pair of alliance and conflict relations on two issues has the same effect as a pair of neutrality relations. Consider a subset of issues J = { i 2 , i 3 , i 4 , i 5 } J=\{i_{2},i_{3},i_{4},i_{5}\} from Table  3 . We first use Yao’s auxiliary function for a single issue (in Table 2 (b)) to compute the relations between agents x 1 x_{1} and x 3 x_{3} on every single issue in J J , as given in the first line of Table  5 . Then we take their average as the aggregated value of Φ J Y ​ ( x 1 , x 3 ) \Phi_{J}^{Y}(x_{1},x_{3}) which is 0. We perform the same computation for agents x 3 x_{3} and x 5 x_{5} which is given in the second line of Table  5 . Clearly, we have Φ J Y ​ ( x 1 , x 3 ) = Φ J Y ​ ( x 3 , x 5 ) = 0 \Phi_{J}^{Y}(x_{1},x_{3})=\Phi_{J}^{Y}(x_{3},x_{5})=0 . Therefore, the agent x 3 x_{3} is determined to have the same relation with x 1 x_{1} and x 5 x_{5} on J J (i.e., neutrality), even though the agent x 3 x_{3} is in conflict with x 5 x_{5} on two issues but not with x 1 x_{1} for any issue. A conflict relation on an issue is dissolved by an alliance relation on another. The same problem exists in the auxiliary function Φ J P \Phi_{J}^{P} . For example, we have Φ J P ​ ( x 1 , x 2 ) = Φ J P ​ ( x 3 , x 5 ) = 0 \Phi_{J}^{P}(x_{1},x_{2})=\Phi_{J}^{P}(x_{3},x_{5})=0 as given in Table  5 . 

 Φ i \Phi_{i} 

 J J 

 i 2 i_{2} 
 i 3 i_{3} 
 i 4 i_{4} 
 i 5 i_{5} 
 Φ J \Phi_{J} 

 Φ i Y ​ ( x 1 , x 3 ) \Phi_{i}^{Y}(x_{1},x_{3}) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 Φ J Y ​ ( x 1 , x 3 ) = 0 \Phi_{J}^{Y}(x_{1},x_{3})=0 

 Φ i Y ​ ( x 3 , x 5 ) \Phi_{i}^{Y}(x_{3},x_{5}) 
 + 1 +1 
 + 1 +1 
 − 1 -1 
 − 1 -1 
 Φ J Y ​ ( x 3 , x 5 ) = 0 \Phi_{J}^{Y}(x_{3},x_{5})=0 

 Φ i P ​ ( x 1 , x 2 ) \Phi_{i}^{P}(x_{1},x_{2}) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 Φ J P ​ ( x 1 , x 2 ) = 0 \Phi_{J}^{P}(x_{1},x_{2})=0 

 Φ i P ​ ( x 3 , x 5 ) \Phi_{i}^{P}(x_{3},x_{5}) 
 + 1 +1 
 + 1 +1 
 − 1 -1 
 − 1 -1 
 Φ J P ​ ( x 3 , x 5 ) = 0 \Phi_{J}^{P}(x_{3},x_{5})=0 

 Table 5 : Computing some values of Φ J Y \Phi_{J}^{Y} and Φ J P \Phi_{J}^{P} in Table  3 

 The reason for the above issues is that three-way conflict models with a single evaluation function do not distinguish between two opposite impacts, that is, either positive/negative attitudes or alliance/conflict relations. Intuitively in decision-making, people usually weigh the positive/good aspect and the negative/bad aspect separately and then combine them to make a final decision. A similar idea has been used in the three-way classification model based on two evaluation functions of positive and negative  Yao_2012 , as well as in the concept of bipolarity  Dubois_2008 , Dubois_2012 . Following the same idea, we propose to split the auxiliary function, which describes both alliance and conflict, into two separate functions. An alliance function evaluates the alliance degree, and a conflict function evaluates the conflict degree. To clearly show their connections to the existing works, we define the alliance and conflict functions in terms of a given auxiliary function. Since auxiliary functions are defined through ratings, one may equivalently define these two functions in terms of ratings. 

 Definition 8 . 

 Given an auxiliary function Φ i \Phi_{i} regarding a single issue i ∈ I i\in I , the alliance function Φ i = : A × A → { 0 , 1 } \Phi_{i}^{=}\mathrel{\mathop{\ordinarycolon}}~A\times A\rightarrow\{0,1\} and the conflict function Φ i ≍ : A × A → { 0 , 1 } \Phi_{i}^{\asymp}\mathrel{\mathop{\ordinarycolon}}~A\times A\rightarrow\{0,1\} with respect to i i are defined as: 

 Φ i = ​ ( x , y ) \displaystyle\Phi_{i}^{=}(x,y) 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { 1 , Φ i ​ ( x , y ) = + 1 , 0 , Φ i ​ ( x , y ) ≠ + 1 ; \displaystyle\left\{\begin{array}[]{lcl}1, \Phi_{i}(x,y)=+1,\\
 \\
0, \Phi_{i}(x,y)\neq+1;\\
\end{array}\right. 
 
 (39) 

 Φ i ≍ ​ ( x , y ) \displaystyle\Phi_{i}^{\asymp}(x,y) 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { 1 , Φ i ​ ( x , y ) = − 1 , 0 , Φ i ​ ( x , y ) ≠ − 1 . \displaystyle\left\{\begin{array}[]{lcl}1, \Phi_{i}(x,y)=-1,\\
 \\
0, \Phi_{i}(x,y)\neq-1.\end{array}\right. 
 
 (43) 

 The function Φ i \Phi_{i} can be any specific auxiliary function that satisfies the general formulation in Equation ( 13 ). 

 Intuitively, we use the values 1 1 and 0 to represent an answer of “yes” and “no” to the alliance and conflict relations. Accordingly, the alliance function describes the alliance and non-alliance relations between agents. If Φ i = ​ ( x , y ) = 1 \Phi_{i}^{=}(x,y)=1 , then x x and y y are allied; otherwise, x x and y y are not allied, which does not necessarily mean that they are in conflict. Similarly, the conflict function gives the conflict and non-conflict relations between agents. If Φ i ≍ ​ ( x , y ) = 1 \Phi_{i}^{\asymp}(x,y)=1 , then x x and y y are in conflict; otherwise, x x and y y are not in conflict, which does not necessarily mean that they are allied. 

 As mentioned above, one may also define the alliance and conflict functions through ratings rather than a given auxiliary function. In that case, an auxiliary function and the pair of alliance and conflict functions can be interchangeably defined. Specifically, we may define an auxiliary function through a pair of alliance and conflict functions as: 

 Φ i ​ ( x , y ) = Φ i = ​ ( x , y ) − Φ i ≍ ​ ( x , y ) . \Phi_{i}(x,y)=\Phi_{i}^{=}(x,y)-\Phi_{i}^{\asymp}(x,y). 
 
 (44) 

 Equivalently, we have: 

 Φ i ​ ( x , y ) \displaystyle\Phi_{i}(x,y) 
 = \displaystyle= 
 { + 1 , Φ i = ​ ( x , y ) = 1 ∧ Φ i ≍ ​ ( x , y ) = 0 , − 1 , Φ i = ​ ( x , y ) = 0 ∧ Φ i ≍ ​ ( x , y ) = 1 , 0 , otherwise . \displaystyle\left\{\begin{array}[]{lcl}+1, \Phi_{i}^{=}(x,y)=1\wedge\Phi_{i}^{\asymp}(x,y)=0,\\
-1, \Phi_{i}^{=}(x,y)=0\wedge\Phi_{i}^{\asymp}(x,y)=1,\\
0, {\rm otherwise}.\\
\end{array}\right. 
 
 (48) 

 In our following discussion, we may alternatively denote the alliance and conflict functions with ratings as their parameters instead of the agents, particularly when we emphasize the ratings rather than the agents who give the ratings. Formally, for two agents x , y ∈ A x,y\in A , we have: 

 Φ i = ​ ( x , y ) \displaystyle\Phi_{i}^{=}(x,y) 
 = \displaystyle= 
 Φ = ​ ( r ​ ( x , i ) , r ​ ( y , i ) ) , \displaystyle\Phi^{=}(r(x,i),r(y,i)), 

 Φ i ≍ ​ ( x , y ) \displaystyle\Phi_{i}^{\asymp}(x,y) 
 = \displaystyle= 
 Φ ≍ ​ ( r ​ ( x , i ) , r ​ ( y , i ) ) . \displaystyle\Phi^{\asymp}(r(x,i),r(y,i)). 
 
 (49) 

 3.2 Aggregated alliance and conflict functions 
 
 The alliance Φ i = \Phi_{i}^{=} and conflict Φ i ≍ \Phi_{i}^{\asymp} functions can be aggregated with respect to both issues and agents. Specifically, we may consider the following four cases of aggregation: 

 (C1) 
 
 a set of issues only; 

 (C2) 
 
 a set of agents as the first parameter only; 

 (C3) 
 
 a set of agents as the second parameter only; 

 (C4) 
 
 any combination of the above three. 

 We propose a general definition of the aggregated alliance and conflict functions that could cover all these four cases. 

 Definition 9 . 

 A general definition of the aggregated alliance and conflict functions is given as follows:
for J ⊆ I J\subseteq I and X , Y ⊆ A X,Y\subseteq A , 

 Φ J = ​ ( X , Y ) = { ∑ i ∈ J , x ∈ X , y ∈ Y Φ i = ​ ( x , y ) | J | ⋅ | X | ⋅ | Y | , J ≠ ∅ , X ≠ ∅ , and ​ Y ≠ ∅ , 0 , otherwise ; \displaystyle\Phi_{J}^{=}(X,Y)=\left\{\begin{array}[]{lcl}\frac{\sum\limits_{i\in J,x\in X,y\in Y}\Phi_{i}^{=}(x,y)}{|J|\cdot|X|\cdot|Y|}, J\neq\emptyset,X\neq\emptyset,{\rm and~}Y\neq\emptyset,\\
 \\
0, {\rm otherwise};\\
\end{array}\right. 
 
 (53) 

 Φ J ≍ ​ ( X , Y ) = { ∑ i ∈ J , x ∈ X , y ∈ Y Φ i ≍ ​ ( x , y ) | J | ⋅ | X | ⋅ | Y | , J ≠ ∅ , X ≠ ∅ , and ​ Y ≠ ∅ , 0 , otherwise . \displaystyle\Phi_{J}^{\asymp}(X,Y)=\left\{\begin{array}[]{lcl}\frac{\sum\limits_{i\in J,x\in X,y\in Y}\Phi_{i}^{\asymp}(x,y)}{|J|\cdot|X|\cdot|Y|}, J\neq\emptyset,X\neq\emptyset,{\rm and~}Y\neq\emptyset,\\
 \\
0, {\rm otherwise}.\\
\end{array}\right. 
 
 (57) 

 From the general definition, one may easily define other cases of aggregation mentioned above by degenerating one or more sets of J J , X X , and Y Y into a singleton set. For example, for the first case of aggregation mentioned above (i.e., a set of issues only), we may simply degenerate the set X X into { x } \{x\} and Y Y into { y } \{y\} . Furthermore, for simplicity, we may use x x and y y instead of the singleton sets in the notations. Thus, we get the following aggregated functions: 

 Φ J = ​ ( x , y ) = { ∑ i ∈ J Φ i = ​ ( x , y ) | J | , J ≠ ∅ , 0 , J = ∅ ; \displaystyle\Phi_{J}^{=}(x,y)=\left\{\begin{array}[]{lcl}\frac{\sum\limits_{i\in J}\Phi_{i}^{=}(x,y)}{|J|}, J\neq\emptyset,\\
 \\
0, J=\emptyset;\\
\end{array}\right. 
 
 (61) 

 Φ J ≍ ​ ( x , y ) = { ∑ i ∈ J Φ i ≍ ​ ( x , y ) | J | J ≠ ∅ , 0 , J = ∅ . \displaystyle\Phi_{J}^{\asymp}(x,y)=\left\{\begin{array}[]{lcl}\frac{\sum\limits_{i\in J}\Phi_{i}^{\asymp}(x,y)}{|J|} J\neq\emptyset,\\
 \\
0, J=\emptyset.\\
\end{array}\right. 
 
 (65) 

 Similarly, we may also easily define the other cases of aggregated functions. Corresponding to all the cases of aggregation mentioned above, we arr